Hey, everyone, welcome back.  We are going to be getting into the difference between foundational styles and components versus things  like more product specific components.  So you may come into a scenario where you have a bunch of different elements that you need to create  components for, and you also have different styles that are kind of feel those components.  Let's take a look at an example here.  So if we just have a brief overview of our design system, we see we have typography styles, which  we all know by now, and we have color styles.  We have even things like imagery styles.  We also have components like icons.  Now, all these styles and these components, they will be used and used by all of our components below  things like buttons where we have properties or component properties that have icons in here.  Here, I'll show you an example.  So if I take this component out and just option dragged it or you can use alt, you can turn on these  little icons and you can see that these icons are the instances of the components within this library  over here.  So you can swap this instance easily by going in here and, you know, accessing another version that's  available to us.  So I'm just going to delete that.  But those styles and same with things like color, they are used throughout this entire system, whether  it's something as simple as an icon, as a component or imagery that we have used to fuel some of our  cards, like what we see here, we have, you know, the image of like, you know, different books  or different items like sunglasses or shoes or whatever you see fit.  It's going to really depend on your scenario, but those are our foundational styles and they are the  definition of like the actual foundation of everything of the design system.  You can see that right through all the different components.  So what I'm trying to explain here is that when you see that you have like cards and you have different  items that you need to design with, those are going to really help you understand, okay, I need to  make things like a card or a button.  Those are going to be your bigger components.  And then, you know, larger design systems will have even components.  The foundational level that are you see here in the product level where you may have inputs that are  used across multiple design systems and multiple products.  So they're more foundational and set of like more product specific.  Since we're just working on just a mobile app right now, we have these more product specific components  that we see here.  And if we were to have a website alongside this, some of these components may fit into just purely  specific to mobile versus something that's more specific to a website.  So remember when you're starting to build your own design system or component library, go through the  process of figuring out what all your components are and start making a list of them.  We'll get into how to do that in a second.

Hey, everyone, welcome back.  Do you remember when we were working on building our own level of fidelity and we were going through  some visual exploration?  Well, if you go back to that resource, you'll notice that there's a bunch of different designs and  different items that I've pulled out to try and think about how those elements can evolve and become  components.  So let's jump right in.  So if we go into our visual exploration section here or page, you'll notice that we have a bunch of  different items.  So when we work together on our own visual exploration, we were first starting out over here and we  had some cards and we had, you know, some various buttons.  And then from there I was able to build upon that a bit more.  And that's what you should do when you are starting to find that style.  Like I mentioned in the past, you need to just continue building up that and start putting pages together.  And so when I started, you know, moving away from this and building those pages, I started thinking  about things like the introduction.  I started thinking about things like, you know, onboarding screens.  And we had registration screens and starting to think through all those scenarios using our user flows.  Once we've started to design these and think about all the different items within, I started pulling  all these items out.  And even though that, you know, we we have some variance between some of these cards, you know,  things like slight variance when it becomes like, you know, two images versus one image or, you know,  a situation where we have these types of product cards and we have like five different variations,  you know, just placing them here and then starting to think through them as a component really helps  you kind of clean them up a bit, maybe pare them down a bit and not necessarily go in too many crazy  directions with your designs.  At the end of the day, you want your designs to be simple.  You want them to be easily understood.  And if there are so many different design patterns, especially when you see like so many different  versions of cards, it's really, really hard for your user to, you know, make sense of it all.  So this is a good way to start getting into the component creations.  When you have these, like, you know, medium to high fidelity designs, you start pulling out those  pieces or those those frames and throwing them into different sections like headers or navigations,  buttons, button containers.  I have here even I have input containers.  I have general types of like chip inputs and checkboxes.  I also have like list items and thinking about that and it will just make your life that much easier  as you go to design it.  So that's where I'm currently at within this process, and I'm going to show you the different sections  of our design system and how we can go about creating it for yourself.

Everyone.  And welcome back.  We're going to be talking about our foundational styles and components really quickly, just so you  know how to use them and how I went about creating some of these things.  So we have our typography section.  This has been something that we've been working on for quite some time here, and ultimately it's still  the same.  We've built out the H one, two, H five showing you which pixel sizing we have here in the line height.  Same with the body copy.  And the label copy.  So this is going to be really helpful for just feeling anything text related within our designs.  As you can see over here, they're split up into the headings body and the label sections.  So just really quick standardisation of it all.  We don't need something really big.  We're just working on a mobile app with, you know, a handful of screens.  When it comes to the color styles, everything is similar to as it was.  We have the three main color styles over here for our primary yellows.  And another thing I do want to reference is that we do have these circles that are indicators of the  actual colors that are going to be using the majority of the time, whether it be these 300 colors or  we even have the 800, 604 hundred and 200 colors in like steps.  So I'll use like 800 for the majority of headings and so on and so forth.  Same with our accents with green, red, blue and purple.  Whoops, let's just fix that while we're here.  So we have a bunch of different options here to play with.  And if we look over here, we can see even our accents are labeled even with that little circle.  So that way when I go to use it like this, I can see which circles, you know, are.  They're just easy for us to just pick those out so you can still use all these other colors.  But sometimes you just want to keep consistency, especially with a massive neutral palette.  Now onto imagery.  So we do have a bunch of images and that's perfect for our products.  So I have books, fashion, music related images and electronic and related images.  You can expand upon this over here.  I just have the name.  They're going to be under the folder books.  Let's take a look.  So we'll have products and we'll have like books in 01020304 as is over here.  And I've also given everyone just a little bit of text explaining like in the colors where they had  the hex value of the color.  We just have a descriptor for each book, like this is what the book is called, this is who it's by.  So we have like secondary description.  Same with all the other items over here.  So that's going to be really helpful to fill in our different project cards.  When it comes to the Avatars, I've even included a bunch of avatars.  I've used a plugin called Content Real, and I'll just showcase that really quickly.  If you do not have this, definitely recommend getting it because sometimes we don't have time to make  styles and we just want to like throw something in.  So all you need to do is come to an image tab, select like a layer.  I have a rectangle over here and you can just throw these different items in really easily.  So now you have them available to you as a style.  So if I create a a rectangle over here, I can go over here and go all the way down to my avatars.  I can even go down to like my images using remove background on all my images so they play nicely with  my cards.  But this is where we're currently at when it comes to our imagery styles.  And last lastly, we have the icons.  So these are feather icons.  You can grab them from the Internet.  They're pretty popular icons.  Yet I grabbed them from the Figma community and threw them in here.  But it's pretty easy to create all these components, whether it's Google material design.  Like if I go into my plugins just to illustrate how quickly you can create your own icon library if  if you really wanted to, you just go into your icon.  We can use streamline instead over here.  There we go.  So we can go into here, grab like this icon.  That's huge, but we can bring it down.  Here.  Let's try to go at 24 pixels because you can just grab everything at the height that you want.  There we go.  Perfect.  So we can go in here and then just, you know, if you have, like, 40.  We have quite a bit of icons, but if you just want to create individual icons instead of creating like  a component set, you can just create multiple components, put them all in the same frame, and you'll  be able to access them easily from your assets tab.  So one thing I still do want I want to stress this is that these components are only going to be able  to be used within your local file, meaning this file only.  So if you have a free account, that's what you're limited to.  And that's why I've set them up all on one page on this assets page.  So you'll be able to use all these styles and components within this file very easily, and you can  use another page for all your designs.  And if you do have a professional account, you'll be free to easily publish that.  So if I want to publish these styles and components, I can go in there.  Any changes, just hit, publish and all these changes that I've just made in regards to like the colors,  as you saw, they will be successfully published and you can use them either across different files  if you have a professional account or within this file.  If you're using within this file, it will already update pretty quickly.  So no need to worry about that too much.  And that is a wrap for our foundational styles and components.

Hey, everyone, welcome back.  Let's jump into our buttons.  So I'm actually going to zoom out here and go into my visual style and exploration section.  I'm going to go through or out of the buttons frame on a copy that.  With the commands here, you can do it with a control C and then I'm going to paste the here control  v or command v.  So as you can see, based off of my designs and exploration, I found a bunch of buttons here.  I'm working with these types of buttons and I've come to my final conclusion on how I wanted to actually  approach them.  So basically I was happy with this type of structure.  So I have four different types of buttons, mostly three.  So I'll go over why?  So I have the main button in two different styles.  So if I drag this button out here, I'll place it in here.  You know, I have it in the primary style, I have it in the secondary style, which is, you know,  this one that we have.  And, you know, just cleaning it up at this point, you want to start standardising.  I had these two versions of buttons and I decided to go with this stronger version because it was more  prominent.  I needed it more often than this version.  If I use this only as like a one off, like a back button where we only saw it like maybe once or twice  in the app, maybe it wasn't worth it.  So then I opted to have.  Even a tertiary version for this kind of like CTA button.  And when I say the word or the acronym CTA, it's a call to action button.  So that means that I want to use this on like on boarding screens or sign up screens or like checkout  or something like that.  Like this color is going to make things pop more and make it seem more serious or not serious, but  more urgent and exciting.  So I have this just in case, and then I have another one I've named Inverted.  And the reason why this one is inverted, you can tell it is white on black, because I was using this  on a lot of cards and I think it's nice to just have this as a kind of like a text.  But in in this situation where we have a back button like this and we can sneak that in, there tend  to have something very, very like tone down in comparison to like a primary button.  So those are the buttons.  I also have small versions of this button I have, and you can easily just scale this button left and  right, kind of like what we've seen here.  I have the ability to enter a button label.  We've all used component properties.  Now you can easily create a component property by clicking on the item and actually.  You know, linking that property up here so we know how to do that.  I have a Boolean property for my my icon and then the ability to have an instance property afterwards  if I need to.  So sometimes these icons will come in and it will be like dark in terms of their color.  So you can just change that really quickly by finding the 900 version and swapping that out.  Oops.  Here we go.  So you can easily bring in any other icon that you want.  And that's basically all there is to this this button.  It's really simple.  And as you can tell, built based off of all these options that we had here.  Let's get into the other components.  I also have the button container.  So this is going to be usually at the bottom or the very bottom of the screen.  If we go back to my visual style and exploration section, I started using this kind of like button  container and sections like this where we had like two buttons.  When I, when I started really raising the fidelity on the registration, I've also seen it on the showing  results and the other screens like over here or adding to cart or there you go.  So I mean, there's a lot of different options there.  I have it like at the pay now checkout.  So there's lots of button containers and let me run through that.  So I have two different types.  As you can see, I have one with a background and one with no background.  And in here you can also jump into that button.  So all I've done is use the frame.  Wrap that button inside that frame.  I've.  You can you can change that button if you really need to and go off and use that.  I'll teach you how to use some of these components.  But we have a default, a branded component if you want it labeled with text.  I have that with a boolean, a Boolean property and that's what they're really great for.  Just component properties in general are going to really help you cut down on the amount of variance.  I only have two types and that's just based off of the color of the background.  So now with this version, I can decide whether I want it to be branded or default.  I can decide whether I want a secondary button like a cancel, or instead of that secondary button,  I can go ahead and put like a inverted button.  So now I have like a cancel button and I have the primary button.  So that is how I came about creating some of these button containers because the reusable, they're  going to be stuck at the bottom and you can easily use them throughout your designs.  And then I came up with Icon Buttons.  One thing I did notice, and if I go back to my visual exploration, was that when I had cards like  this, I had some icon buttons that were circular.  I kind of liked playing with a little bit of, you know, circular shapes in here and, you know, more  rounded shapes instead of the standard, you know, less rounded button.  So I threw those in there very similar to.  Our designs over here, we have decided to actually cut the inside of that white that you saw over here  with these buttons where they were white and opted to give them a different color.  So if you look, I'm using these versions mostly.  So let me just remove that option.  But I'm using these versions like this almost exclusively, but I've given the option if we do want  to expand out to use other brand colors.  So as you can see, all these different items, you can't really get into the component stage or the  product component stage until you've either solidified a little bit of your styles and some of those  foundational components.  And in addition, raise the fidelity.  So these are what our buttons look like and our button components in general look like right now.

Hey, everyone, and welcome back.  We're going to be talking about cards and how we came up with these variants.  Now, this is one of the more harder components to deal with, and we're going to jump right in.  What I'm going to do is I'm actually going to grab all these cards.  I'm going to grab our text cards and grab our product cards, and I'm going to copy those and bring  those over to show you some of that process.  So as I said before, we were working through a lot of these designs and I like to using these colors  for like featured product cards.  I had secondary cards that I started finalizing and as you can see, I started adding like reviews.  I started cleaning up the text a bit, just as you can see here in making sure the sizes were nice.  I had some images I was just throwing in there really quickly.  Also started thinking about different scenarios with cards, you know, are we stacking them in certain  ways sometimes?  What does it look like when they're in the cart or what does it look like when they're just like search  results like this?  So I basically did all this type of fidelity exploration and also looked into, you know, building  up that fidelity in other ways in regards to having like, you know, these different types of product  or interest cards and these types of like notices or larger cards that we can see throughout the app.  So these are not perfect by any means.  And you can you can build upon these components.  These are not components, but you can build upon my components.  I've also thought about like the cards and how you can use them in the onboarding.  And, you know, these, these other ones that I was working on, I cleaned them up quite a bit and  made them, you know, a little bit more polished.  And then I decided to jump into the component creation stage.  And when it comes to product cards, like I said, very, very complex.  So if I just take one as an example and just illustrate how this is made.  So let's get into it.  Now we have a variance.  Let me just explain the variance.  To start off, we have a featured card.  We have a small card, we have a list item card, which is going to be like something that you see in  a search result.  And then we have one that will be in a order.  So you'll see a card with like maybe some destination or a shipping label or something like that.  So you have all of these versions of cards.  Let's go back to the ones that we see often.  Now.  I have a lot of properties here.  You know, you can change the product's name.  Like I just said, over here, you can take off the image and then you can set the card to hug its contents.  So you can do a bunch of different things.  If you don't like the way the car is built, you can turn off some of these things.  You can turn off the the ability to add that car to your wish list.  You can, you know, add more product info, which is like this kind of secondary description and then  you can put the price content is in as well.  So these are going to be some of your main component properties.  Now let's talk about the actual structure.  So I have a little icon container at the top and that is just set.  There's really nothing in here.  It just holds this icon and shifts it to the right.  Same with this image container.  Really simple.  I just set a container for a rectangle inside and this container has a just a vertical padding of 12  pixels.  So that way the images don't expand too much and the image itself is within like that rectangle container.  And literally you can swap that image really easily in here I have an information container and as you  can tell, like even my naming conventions are really, really strict.  I'm basically describing like icon container, image container and so on.  And then I have the other types of details.  So I have like my information container and then within there I have like product details and then I  may have the product name and product info and then I have a price and I would rename your layer.  So that way they're nice and consistent and then you can easily just attach those to those properties  that you need to.  Same thing with the other variants, they're basically using the same structure instead with this one  with the information container, you know, I do have the ability to have product info in here, so  you can't really turn that off and on.  I've just hidden it in this variant, but you know, you can you can go ahead and change that within  the design.  I've also added a review as well and it's basically the same structure.  So you can take a look at the structure for yourself as well.  The cards, the reason why they aren't a variant, because they are so different, they the only thing  that they really share is like the image, the name and the price.  Aside from that, like visually they're not really anything close to that.  And you have like two different versions here.  You have the version where it's deleted and not deleted.  So it definitely takes a bit of time getting used to this one so you can go like that and then you can  grow it.  So that is how this item works.  And then we have the category cards.  So I just have to variations here.  Basically, this one's a little bit more complex because you have the button container at the bottom  and then you can hide that top container, you can hide the other icon container.  So if you want to use this as like add this like this interest and have like an image of like a book  and say something like reading that we've seen in some of our designs here or let's, let's see, it's  right here.  You know, you can add like fashion and have like sunglasses or something like that.  So giving you a lot of flexibility with this card, using it in like two ways.  One with in this way where maybe it's like a category card or like adding an interest or also just like  just text based cards.  So definitely easy to use in that regard.  But let's jump to the other version.  So when you're in your account, you have these other versions, you can just have the card label and  then you have the instance for the icon.  So anything like account details like related payment methods, shipping or address addresses and so  on, definitely really easy to use once again.  And then I have the informative card.  So I have two versions I wanted to have like just like a white version for like the search page.  And that is where you know that like you have no results and maybe, you know, hey, you're searching  for this.  Did you mean musical or there was no results for music, so still need to throw that into those designs.  But here is your actual card that I like using.  You can swap like the the you can take out the buttons.  You can take like the body copy if you want.  You can put it in your headline copy.  You can take out your headline and your image and then you can specify the type.  So that is how you use these cards.  You can even go into your image container over here and.  You know, set the instance for the illustration if you want.  I have a bunch of different illustrations available to you as well as components, and basically that  is how the cards came to be.  As you can tell now, they're much more consistent.  Even past this stage, I've cut out a lot of these colors and now we're just you know, we have like  basically three different variations of cards, keeping that design language simple and easy to understand.  And that is how we created cards.

Hey everyone, let's get into our header components.  This is a component I find that people just forget about making.  So I have different variations of this header component.  We're going to go into my visual style and exploration section and pull out that little frame named  headers so I can show you some of the exploration that I did and where I ended up.  So you'll notice here that we have base components, and the base components, as we know, is just  a section where we can encompass one main component and not worry about changing, you know, different  things about it.  Now I decide to create like an action header component because there's so many variations of it that  I don't want to change every single one all the time now.  I have a bunch of, you know, different containers in your I have like an interactive container that  has a button for filters.  I have like a carousel container.  I have a view all little like button, text button, and I have a cart icon.  So I decided to instead of having the profile in the top, I actually went ahead and put the cart at  the top because it's very prominent right in the top right corner and persistent across all pages.  Whereas in the navigation, sometimes it kind of gets a little lost around your fingers.  So just a nice way to kind of bring attention to there.  And I think like the profile can be secondary in this case.  So I took that bass component and created new components.  If you look in the structure of like this one component here, you can see that it's referencing this  base component over here.  Now, when it comes to actually using these components, I have three, five different variations.  Most of them are going to be used in like one or two instances where you have like maybe main page headers.  And let's just grab an example over here.  So you'll see them in sections like this where you have like orders or maybe on your profile section.  We may have to think through that.  So as I as I mentioned, another great part of this process is like going through your designs and picking  out the bad just design practices because it's easy to fall into the trap of like inconsiderate creating  inconsistency through your designs.  So you can tell over here I've decided, Hey, I want to use profile like this in a back button.  But that's not necessarily in line with how the other main navigation pieces work, where their navigation  will always be available to them.  So you have like orders here and you have like the wish list.  So these are your main navigational pages and that's where this is from.  Or this one, if there's no lock in button.  So.  I decided to opt out of using that avatar at the top right and decided to just put a cart there.  So if I just grab this as an example, throw it over here completely responsive.  And now we just going through the different types here I have featured.  So this is like for any featured designs.  So something like this where it's like, hey, this is like featured like really big cards are mostly  going to use that.  And then I have my standard like home page.  When you arrive, you have the icon and then you have the cards.  Regular page where it's like a wish list or orders or profile.  And then I have a view all so these are kind of like secondary.  We'll see them and things like maybe like deals.  And then we have the filter.  So things like search results and stuff like that.  So if we go see some of our designs or explorations for a search results, we'll see that we have like  something like this.  And even here, like we don't often use our Laura font font family for stuff like this, but I decide  to use it while I was exploring and decided against it because you know, anything really like UI related  where we're really trying to explain stuff I'm going to use inter over Laura.  Laura is more decorative.  So like for headings and these kind of other headings I'm using inter for.  So just trying to in this section I'm using that but you know, trying to create that level of consistency.  Same thing with these overlay headers.  So like when we have like the car overlay, you know, I'm just either showing that left icon or I'm  hiding the right icon and everything's set up in a way with like an orderly container, you can see.  And, and they aren't packed together.  They're actually spaced between.  So really easy to use for for things like that.  And I can show you some of the options, whether it's like the overlay of the search filter.  Or.  You know, going into like sections like this where we have like my interest.  So there's different options there.  Or categories, even using it at the very top, we can modify it in a way where it's, oops, let me  just grab that component.  I'm going to copy it.  And bring it here so we can modify it in a way where we can even go in and just hide certain things  and, you know, use this.  To say.  I'm going to use like the left icon to go back.  Our arrow.  So that is how.  And you don't need to.  I mean, I would urge you all to use components as best as possible.  But, you know, you can go ahead and use some of these in this type of way.  So don't be afraid to, like swap certain things out if you need to.  And that's that's the great thing about components.  I'll get into that after.  And these are our headers.

Hey, everyone, and welcome back.  So if you've been following along, especially within forms and UI elements, we created a lot of different  components, especially we talked about inputs which are incredibly important.  What I did was I basically took a lot of those inputs and redesign them within here.  I'm only really going to need them for let's see, based off of our visual style and exploration resource  over here that you should be using as well.  We have them in different spaces.  We we have them over here as in like these fills.  So I just use like a background gray which, you know, I ended up switching just to be consistent.  And I have them over here, as you can tell, like no consistency in terms of the input because obviously  we were just exploring.  We have them here, so we do have those available to us.  Now they're structured in the exact same way.  So we have like error messages if we need them.  We.  Let's.  Let's take one just so we can explore this.  So you can toggle the label, you can show placeholders, show left icons, you can have right icon,  you can have success messages, you can have exactly all that.  And if you go into the label.  So I made the label a bass component below you can show the icon there or an optional label there.  We won't be using those a bunch because maybe they'll only be for the sign up screen.  But I have a bunch of different versions.  I have a disabled air success state.  These are all the variants, the active state, I have the filled state and then the just empty state.  Then let's go into our base components.  First, I'm going to grab.  Our input frame from our visual style and exploration resource.  So as you can tell, we have a bunch of different inputs.  So we did create those inputs pretty easily because we had a lot of past references that we could use,  just swapping out a lot of those different icons that were used previously for the icons that we have  now in our foundation.  And we have these different types of checkboxes that I've been using, so created a checkbox and radio.  Even though we don't have radio like I like to sometimes create them ahead of time.  So that way we're prepared just, you know, worst case scenarios.  And then we have these different pill selectors.  They're kind of like toggles.  So I have two variations of these and decided to create those components.  I'll get into those in a second.  So I have my checkboxes which are like I said, these are going to be easy to use when you go into your  list item here, you can see.  I just have two versions here.  I have one with the checkbox on the right and one with the checkbox on the left.  So when we get into our actual checkboxes, we can easily take this and use it in a way like that so  we can drag it here and we can go through that list.  I can turn off the label if I want to.  I can swap between radio or a checkbox, and then I can go ahead and hide or swap them to right or left.  So that is how you can use that input list.  And then we have our chip.  So I did go and create these larger chips and these smaller chips, all very similar to the types of  buttons that we currently have.  But these are only going to be used mostly.  You know, this one's on the onboarding screens and or on the registration screens and these ones are  going to be like on category screens.  And just a little nice option to have that available whenever you want it.  And that is how you use these chips.  And you can also, if you really wanted to, we can build these out even more to have properties like  I have here.  You can use the either the same properties I have within the buttons which I've kind of created over  here.  So if I grab this one and.  You know, I can show the left icon if I wanted.  And the right icon and.  You know, do something like that if I need to.  So definitely lots of options there for you.  And those are our inputs.  Let's take a look at some of these, just how we've used these inputs.  If we go into the registration.  So a lot of my design here, I've been thinking about like, you know, big chunky inputs that I can  have people click instead of like checkboxes in this case.  And then when we get into like some of the details, we can go a little deeper.  And when I was working on categories, I thought about like, you know, all the categories and listing  them and just kind of pill form and people can actually just click them and just go straight there really  quickly.  You can also use this maybe even for filters, because sometimes filters can get out of hand, even  though I didn't build them into the actual filter section over here.  Yet aside from like some of this stuff, you know, you can have a larger sections like that category  page.  And like I said, I'm basically using a lot of these same just ways of creating those pills.  Like I'm keeping it really, really consistent.  And I have two states here.  So when I use this pill and I have it unselected, I can easily just say, okay, now it's selected.  So that is how you can use these chips in your designs.

Everyone.  And welcome back.  So I often find that many people forget this component as well.  List items sometimes seem very, very easy to either create, which they are.  But I mean, sometimes they're just like a pain to constantly create over and over again.  And we're also developing consistency around how our list items are used and how they're displayed.  So let's jump in.  So if I go back to this visual style and exploration resource, I have a bunch of options here and I  have list items.  So I'm going to copy that over and paste it.  So as you can tell, I have a different list items that I had from like interest pages.  I had them from like our search type ahead that we were talking about.  We've been talking about this one for quite some time and how it functions and then just general list  items if we need to.  This could be for like settings page and so on.  And so I decided to create a just a base item that held some of these components.  And I have a toggle between like this ad and this selected state.  So it's really apparent.  So this is one of your interests that you have and if you have a long list of interests.  Now if we go back to this section and we look at some of the designs where we're using list items like  this.  We can see them either here.  Like your suggested searches maybe, or your type of head searches and interest.  So right now I've built it out into two screens, but, you know, we could possibly just use one screen  for this now that I'm thinking about it.  You know, part of this component creation, exploration and process in general is that through the  creation of components you're cutting, you're trimming a lot of fat within your designs, you're trimming  a lot of fat within just the individual UI elements that you're creating components for, and you're  making such a cohesive system and such a powerful design language.  So the same thing happens here with like this text list item I have, you know, they all look pretty  much the same now.  We have like the option to go here and I can select whether it's a button list or just like a general  list or a type of head list.  If I go into like my button list, I can go in here into my text list item and you can go ahead and  change things here.  But I can even go into.  You know, each individual containers.  And swap things that I may or may not need.  So.  This is really, really helpful for just creating some really, really easy and reusable designs and  look how they look in comparison to when I first brought them in.  You know, I had some of these that were like kind of bolded a bit.  I had some spacing that was not necessarily like the best.  I think even some of the rules were a little bit off these horizontal rules.  So these are now using a lot of the components of ours that that we've created.  And there's just consistency across like even the iconography.  So definitely can build this out even further if we wanted to.  But this is currently our list item components, really easy to use as well.  So if we just look at that structure, we can see that we have an auto layout container over here.  And I've already put in padding for it because I want it to be off the edge of the page.  And I want these horizontal rules to go all the way, you know, left to right span the entire screen.  I have that label container where it's either like that main label or the type of head label.  And then in here I have either a Chevron, which is the arrow or the button.  So once again, label container, interaction container.  And then I have my base like this.  And when you publish these styles, you know you'll be able to hide.  All your base components because you're not going to be using those within your designs.  And these are our list item components.

