Hey everyone and welcome back.  We are going to be talking about the misconceptions of motion design.  Let's get into this.  So motion design is a crucial element in making user's interactions with the brand's digital products  more streamlined and intuitive.  I love this quote over here.  Motion tells stories.  Everything in an app is a sequence, and motion is your guide.  For every button clicked and screen transition, there is a story that follows.  This was said by Craig Denner, who formerly was at the Human Interface team at Apple, and this quote  holds true.  The problem is, motion is often an afterthought.  I hear these things all the time, like focus on the other things.  Motion is not a core part of the UX.  People generally believe that the core of a product is all the other facets like design, research or  UX and the UI.  But this ultimately means that the motion is separate from the design process and doesn't play a large  role in the usability of products, which is wrong.  This belief neglects examples like, say, the Pinterest app, where motion is used to simply and effectively  transition users from a list view, maybe to a detail view with minimal impact during major context  switching, and you can see it on the side here in this example, whether it is, you know, clicking  on a form and moving to the next screen and transitioning, tracking your progress and your completion,  that is impossible without motion.  This one's a doozy.  We can add motion later.  You can't.  Well, you can't do that effectively.  At least motion is generally not considered in the bulk of work it takes to create a digital product.  And there's this idea here where people think that once everything else has been completed, then they  can just tack on motion later without giving it much thought.  That's not really going to be effective.  When people think like this, they neglect to think about all the ways motion has affected interaction  concepts that couldn't exist otherwise.  If we take a look on the left here, if the user is going to say scroll up and leave a review, that  keyboard, the iOS keyboard that's popping up nicely from the bottom, you know, that is an entirely  motion dependent interaction there.  Or the iOS app switcher.  It's super important.  Let's think about this one over here.  Motion is just animation.  And you know, I know many people are guilty of saying stuff like this, but it isn't entirely true.  Animation includes things that move and draws from our understanding of classic animation.  You know, think like Disney animation.  Generally, when people think like this, they just think of motion as a way to add personality to a  design and product.  And you know, that is true because motion can do that.  But motion is so much more.  People tend to forget is that although helpful, the animation principles that are set out by Disney  aren't as relevant as the motion design principles for digital products, because they're solving two  entirely different problems.  You know, on the right here, we do have a lot more animation, which, you know, is pretty rare,  but it is solving that problem of showing, you know, those friends being invited and being part of  that group there.  But those are the common misconceptions I always hear about motion design.

Hey everyone and welcome back.  We are going to be talking about how motion supports usability.  Let's jump right in.  It's unfortunate that many places treat motion as an afterthought because of these untrue beliefs that  we talked about.  More specifically, treating motion as an equal to UI animation or UI animation is almost always used  in a way to provide delight to users, or a cosmetic change that has no bearing on how successful the  UX is.  Contrary motion is not.  This motion is.  Behavior and behaviors can only help or hinder the user experience.  Motion design must support usability in several ways.  So let's go through what those ways are.  When users interact with the UI elements, what motion behaviors do they expect to see?  Does motion meet the expectation or cause confusion?  When I ask myself this question, I am thinking about how users perceive what an object is and how it's  going to behave.  We want to minimize the gap between what the user expects and what they experience.  Our interactions consistent across the user experience.  Here I'm thinking about a couple of things.  User flow and the general consistency of the UX.  Ensure continuity, which is the continuity within a scene, and inter continuity the continuity within  a series of scenes that make up the total user experience.  So is it what's happening within this one little animation over here, or this one little interaction?  Or is it moving from screen to screen?  We need to make sure those interactions are very consistent, whether it's the speed of the animations  or just how gentle they can be.  Do the interactions and motion behaviors create a logical progression of events or interactions in the  motion behaviors they trigger tied to a logical progression of events that satisfies the user's intent.  When we design experiences, we need to make sure that the moments and events that we prototype and  design connect together in a logical way throughout the entire user experience.  That means if I'm going into a scene like this, is it a card that expands into that scene?  It's logical that it would.  And lastly, how do the spatial, aesthetic and hierarchical attributes of UI elements relate to each  other and influence user decision making?  So how does motion impact the various element relationships that exist?  Things like the different elements on the screen?  What happens when it shifts from page to page or section to section?  What does that impact essentially mean for each element in the user experience?  We have to be very thoughtful.  And if we do these things properly not only will our designs and user experiences just be generally  better, but they will be so much more usable thanks to motion.

Hey everyone and welcome back.  We are going to be talking about something very interesting here, which is a narrative and mental models.  So let's jump right in.  Simply put, motion serves as an explanation to the user of how one gets to and from various places  in the user interface.  This explanation can be thought of in terms of coherence, the degree to which the explanation aligns  with the UX, content, and mental models.  This narrative over here on the left.  It would not have been possible without motion to imagine this without motion.  You know you got play the interaction with a simple cut.  No nice transitions from one screen or one interaction to the next.  What you are left with is that the beginning and end states of the interaction are conceptually distant.  Motion connects these two conceptually distant ideas and offers a coherent explanation.  Think about this one as well.  In this view, motion is a fundamental part of the user experience, both from a design methodology  and from what the user experiences actually.  So clicking on a plus or a negative button is bringing those cards in with the controllers just showing  you the number of players.  It's a nice clean way to introduce a new concept.  But motion is fundamental.  Motion is not just an add on, but something that requires deep consideration during the design of any  two screens or even a simple, simple interaction.  Think of ways to actively use it throughout your design process.  Mental models exist in the minds of users and designers alike.  When we create products for others to consume, we need to keep in mind that when the user interacts  with that product and trying to make sense of it, they have their own mental models.  The design of the system itself and the mental models of the designer.  Like you, me, Anyone.  This is essentially how we make sense of the products we use, with a shared understanding of how things  should work.  Motion plays a very large role in how users perceive what objects are in the interface and what they  are and what they do.  So with that being said, motion plays a large role in mental models and specifically in how users perceive  what objects in the interface are and what they do.  Motion does this by using our existing mental models or by creating new ones.  And motion can do this by using a combination of three different methods.  Number one Skeuomorphic behavior.  We have existing mental models for interacting and navigating our physical environment.  If we can understand these mental models, we will be successful at interfacing with a user's perception  and reasoning.  In this example, you can see that even just pulling up gives you that bouncy feeling.  What you would expect like from a ball.  It's kind of like mimicking real life.  And when we have different interactions that use these types of skeuomorphic behaviors, it's almost  like we're making or connecting that thought in our brain with what we're expecting something to do  when we slide it up or down too much.  Rules.  As humans, we are wired to learn rules.  Generally, as a designer, we are taught never to make the user think about the design they are using.  Or to put that more simply, we don't want to have our user learn new systems or rules, right?  Like, you want to have an easy design, but there is opportunity for all user experiences, have and  will continue to have state changes.  This is essentially the change from one thing to the next, an interaction or a screen change.  Simply put, there is always going to be a gap between those two things.  This gap forces the users to learn, and we are more than capable at learning interaction patterns because  of this.  Motion plays a significant role in defining and reinforcing new rules.  Interactional and visual cues.  Visual cues and static designs imply that there is some sort of cause and effect in the interface.  The motion behavior.  The effect is what comes after the initial cue.  That motion either aligns or conflicts with these cues, and this is a big opportunity for designers  to get right.  Motion really does have the potential to connect with user mental models and drive product results,  so using motion in digital products is a very powerful tool.  This is true for designers who look to make a great product that connects with users.  It can be very challenging to deliver on because of its natural complexity, but when it's done well,  it has the potential to really connect with the users mental models and create a successful product.

Hey everyone, and welcome back.  You may have been thinking, Daniel, you've been saying things like interactions and whatnot and all  that.  So let's get into what a micro interaction is.  Despite being small, micro interactions have the power to make the experience of your product more  effective and human.  So let's take a look at the definition of a micro interaction.  Microinteractions are contained product moments that are meant for a single use case, and those little  moments are a large part of our daily interactions with products.  So think every time you're setting your alarm could just be like the little notches over here.  You know, setting those or checking your notifications, having something pop up or something like  that, or adding something to your online cart.  You are engaging with Microinteractions when you're doing all these different types of things.  A well-designed micro interaction will make the user experience smooth and easy.  Micro interactions can be a great tool for communicating the tone of your brand as well.  Think of Facebook reactions.  These can go on to be a part of your brand's signature moments that increase adoption and customer loyalty.  It's really hard to think of a brand like Facebook without these anymore, and even the thumbs up is  synonymous with Facebook at this point.

Hey everyone and welcome back.  I know you all want to learn a little bit more about Microinteractions, so we'll get right into it.  There is a structure that makes Microinteractions effective, and it was created by Dan Stafford in  his book Microinteractions Designing with details.  And there are four essential parts to a microinteraction like we're looking at right now.  There's the trigger rules, feedback, and modes and loops.  So let's get into what those are.  So number one is the trigger.  This is what starts the Microinteraction.  It could be a user initiated trigger, like a user clicks a button or one of the icons that you see  over here.  Or it can be initiated by the actual product itself.  Think of a notification that a user is getting.  Number two, we got rules.  These determine how microinteractions respond to a trigger while also defining what happens during that  interaction.  So what happens when you tap on an icon.  Does it jingle?  Does it fill?  Does that little ball indicate that it's active?  Number three we get feedback.  This tells the user what is actually happening during a microinteraction, inputting a wrong password  and receiving an error, or inputting the proper email and actually getting through to the next form  input.  This is a great way to alert users that they have done something wrong, and it will guide them to proceed  properly.  And the last one is Loops and modes.  These are the meta rules of a microinteraction and how it changes when used.  Understanding the structure of a microinteraction allows you to design ones that make a difference.  So with loops and modes, these rules could be like whenever you click something, does it change every  time you click it?  Or does it just repeat?

Hey everyone and welcome back.  We're going to be talking about what elements are essentially a microinteraction.  You may be thinking, you know, it could encompass a substantial number of digital elements.  And that's true.  But not every element is part of a microinteraction.  You know, things that don't move and are always static are not part of a Microinteraction think entire  flows that have multiple actions are not Micro-interactions maybe those smaller actions in the flow  are.  And here are some examples of what Micro-interactions are.  So scroll bars are considered Micro-interactions a user triggers that scrolling, there's that visual  feedback to a user, changing the location on the page or an alarm.  A system triggers that alarm, and there's instant feedback to some sort of time condition being met.  Think interactive buttons like if I click it, you know, there is that feedback that something's happened,  whether it's being pushed down or it turns into multiple buttons or multiple options, but if there's  no feedback when the user clicks or hovers over a button, then there's really no microinteraction to  be had.  Think about the concept of pulling to refresh.  A user triggers that by swiping downward and some sort of visual feedback happens that there's loading  content or even just general swiping.  You know, swiping cards out of the view.  Like you can see in this example, the user triggers that and there's a visual feedback to that user  action.  And lastly another example is the notification.  The system that the user is using is triggering that notification that something new is happening maybe.  And there's instant feedback like that little dot that pops up that provides the user with feedback  of a new notification.  So like I said, these are just six different examples.  But there are so many more examples of elements that are moving or giving some sort of feedback after  a trigger that are micro-interactions.

Hey everyone and welcome back.  We are going to be talking about how Microinteractions actually impact the user experience.  Microinteractions don't usually get a lot of attention during the product design process.  They seem like these little small details of a broader user experience, and those small details have  a significant impact on the impression your product has on its users and in most cases, the difference  between products we tolerate and products we love are the quality of the microinteractions.  It's essential to put a lot of focus on designing the small moments they provide feedback to users actions.  Your product should be intuitive no matter what.  That is what you should always strive for.  Microinteractions are something that can help you achieve this, and they're good at providing feedback  and keeping users informed.  It's also vital to consider the user's journey when implementing these types of feedback.  We need to look for places where the user might need feedback for reassurance.  Think about sending or transferring money, like in this example below.  Imagine if the user doesn't get some sort of success microinteraction or processing microinteraction  or message when they click a button after sending that money.  It could be really, really worrisome for some.  They also help to prevent errors.  Helping users deal with error states is a common UX practice, but it's much better to even prevent  them from happening.  When we think like this, we can create products that keep users in control of their own experience.  Helping prevent form error is something we should all strive to do.  When a user signs up to a new service or product, they often have to enter a username and password.  Often they are met with errors after they click the submit button that tells the user that the username  has been taken.  We can easily handle this with inline validation.  It saves users from potential extra work like you see in this example right here, showing you that  the password is too weak and it's meeting all the criteria as you fill it out or undoing.  Sometimes we make mistakes and click things accidentally.  Your product should make it easy for a user to undo that action like you see here.  Microinteractions.  Communicate the state of a component and suggest that further action is probably possible.  It's one of the perfect ways to support this.  There's also seamless interactions that they could really help with.  The less effort users need to invest in an interaction, the better usability of the product.  This is why we strive to create seamless interactions that don't require too much effort.  Microinteractions can really help here as well.  Swipe actions like we have in this example.  Swiping allows the user to easily move throughout a list instead of constantly tapping.  It's so much more easier or even in pulling to refresh.  This is an excellent example of a Microinteraction that is triggered by the user.  This allows users to pull down a list of items to receive more information, like emails or more posts.  It makes the experience of browsing data much more smooth and manageable.  Microinteractions definitely encourage engagement as well.  Using emotion in your product design makes it possible to form a better connection with your users.  Like animated feedback works really well here.  Like a heart animation or a confetti pop.  For a successful task completed, it is possible to achieve a better result when a user achieves important  goals or finishes a task, and these moments can be reinforced with micro interactions.  By doing this, you'll create a sense of achievement and can make that moment a little bit more special  for your users.  And lastly, they can really help you communicate the tone of your brand.  Microinteractions should always have a purpose, but that doesn't mean that they shouldn't be able to  capture your brand.  If your brand tone is fun, colorful, and joyful, it's okay to try to recreate that within your microinteractions,  but this only works if it matches your branding.  Could you imagine if you saw stuff like this with a banking institution?  I don't think I would trust my money with them, but if that is your brand, like say, Facebook tried  to be fun trying to be, you know, a little silly at times.  I think it definitely can really help reinforce that.