Wireframes

Hey, everyone, welcome back.  So we're going to be talking about wireframes.  So we're really going to get into designing very soon.  But, you know, we're done our site map, we're done user flows.  You know, we've done a lot of sketching and, you know, we have a good understanding of the content  and the structure that is going into our product.  So now I think Wireframe is pretty much the next step.  But the big question is, well, what is a wireframe?  Now, you may have seen images like this when we were sketching, and wireframe is a low fidelity layout  that serves three simple purposes.  It presents the information that will be displayed on the page in a little bit more detail than our  sketches and our user flows.  It gives an outline of structure and layout of the page, and it conveys the overall direction and description  of your user interface.  It's basically, as you can see here, it's just like a blueprint of a building, but instead of a building,  it describes the details clearly and specifically, while giving everyone involved a good overview of  the product.  It's kind of like that middle ground between your sketches and higher fidelity designs and prototypes.  They help you really plan layout interaction patterns for your users without worrying about distracting  details like colors or copy or, you know, typography.  You know, all those things can really bog down your design process.  Another thing to really know is that they're really heavily influenced from your prior work.  So if you've done story mapping, you have user stories, if you've done things like user flows or site  maps, I mean, all these different artifacts should really influence the way you create your wireframes.  So just keep that in mind that you shouldn't just be like jumping in and creating a whole bunch of wireframes  and not necessarily really understanding the type of content that needs to be there and the requirements  that need to be there.  So really consult all those artifacts that you have and if you don't have them, you know, talk to  the right people that can get you that information, whether that be product managers, clients, stakeholders,  internal stakeholders, you know, use your voice if you need those requirements to even start.  So why do we use them?  Two big reasons.  I like using them because they really help to test your concepts and your structure, so they really  help you to understand how users will navigate your product.  Sometimes you can use your wireframes to highlight certain areas that you think need to have prominence  on a page to test if that piece of content is actually working and if the user flow makes sense.  So this is one of the big reasons I use that so that it could be like user flows again, but in much  more detail.  Understanding the different types of interactions and putting it into a wireframe makes it a little  more easier to test with users to get, I guess, better results.  The next best thing, actually, I think this is the number one thing actually you need to use them  to learn.  You know, they are fast, cheap and impermanent.  Don't get attached to wireframes.  They're meant to change.  As you gather more information through research and feedback from your clients and from your users,  they're a great place to fail.  And I don't mean that negatively on a project you want to fail as quickly as possible, and that means  you want to test your assumptions as quick as possible before it gets to high fidelity designs or even  development.  You know, they serve as that common language for your team as well.  They're complex enough to inform everyone, but simple enough to not get bogged down by too much detail.  Now, the little kind of graph I have here is the build measure learn graph.  And if anyone's read Lean Startup, I think like that's amazing because it's an amazing book.  But if you haven't, you should definitely read Lean Startup.  It talks a lot about building, measuring and learning.  So what that essentially means is you build and that could be a wireframe, that could be a sketch.  You measure it against something.  What metric you're testing against it could be like, I want to know if this interaction works.  I want to know if the users actually are interested in my product.  You learn from those results and then you build again.  So wireframes really help you to kind of implement that build, measure, learn cycle.  So I want you always to think about that.  Whenever you're kind of testing with users or just talking to other clients or stakeholders, you keep  that in the back of your mind because the design process isn't linear, it's very iterative.  So how can we use them?  They're useful for three big reasons right now.  You know, they help your team estimate the type of work they're going to complete clarity and common  understanding across the team.  They help your team understand what is going to be built.  I mentioned this a little bit earlier.  It gives them an opportunity to chime in as well.  If you're presenting to them and you should always be presenting to them, even if it's just like ad  hoc, you know, talk to your peer really quickly.  The specs are kind of dated and wireframes can be really much more collaborative than that.  So get your team involved as much as possible.  The next thing is user testing.  We use them a lot for user testing.  The sooner you test, the better.  And that's the big thing.  You know, like I said before, fail fast.  So you can get quick feedback without necessarily developing complex prototypes with all those different  types of visual things like typography, color and all the different types of details like that.  So testing with users really uncover like the different types of pain points and opportunities.  So this is a little customer journey map.  You know, if you've created one at this point, that's great as well because it will really help you  understand how the user moves throughout your product and other products.  So really document how your user can move through your wireframes, understand like what their pain  points are.  And usually there you'll understand that there are certain opportunities that you can really benefit  from.  And I also like to I think this is kind of inevitable.  I really like to use these to demo to clients.  It's a good way to get really quick feedback instead of like going all the way and sprinting towards  like that beautiful design or that beautiful complex prototype.  I mean, you got to remind them that it isn't the final design because, you know, you may have a client  that is just like this has no color or this has no like typographic elements.  Like, what is this that doesn't look good and it's not necessarily meant to look good.  So you need to explain that to them just so they can give you some quick feedback on certain things  like interactions and, you know, flows and just placement and layout and hierarchy.  Another thing about getting quick feedback is that making changes to high fidelity designs is like really  time intensive and you don't want to be making bigger changes when you're nearly done the product.  You want to be making those changes as you go along and the earlier the better.  So that's how we can use wireframes.  We can definitely use them to like test.  And I think like that is the biggest thing is testing early and testing often and not worrying about  the details.  So I'll teach you next how to create them.

Everyone.  And welcome back.  We're going to be talking about how do I create my own wireframes?  So the one thing I really want to stress is to keep things simple.  You know, don't worry about fidelity, especially when you're wire framing.  You just need just enough to really get people to understand what you're trying to convey.  Pencil and paper is probably the best way to wireframe quickly, you know.  This is one of my mantras like we've already done this.  I mean, we sketched a bit, we did some user flows and you've already kind of started wire framing.  Even if you have a whiteboard, you can use one.  But I mean, pencil and paper are huge.  You know, if you do have a client, you can polish them up to showcase some of your interactions or  more prominent areas within your flows and, you know, pages that you're designing for.  You can definitely add a little bit more fidelity to just showcase or demo them, but you want to keep  your colors to grayscale.  White and black is perfectly fine and grazing between.  Don't go crazy on fonts maybe to what you can even get away with one.  You can easily show hierarchy with bolding fonts as well or increasing the size.  Avoid any flashy images you can use rectangles and squares and an X through the middle.  Just say that that would be an image and for videos you can add a triangle in the middle to indicate  that that's one as well.  So keep it simple.  Don't worry about fidelity, especially at this stage.  The next thing is you've got to ask yourself some pretty important questions.  You know, what are the users and the businesses goals when interacting with this page?  How can the content be organized to support these goals?  What should the user see when they first come to a page?  What will the user expect to see on certain areas of the page?  I think these questions are a perfect segway really into wire framing and, you know, consult your  old artifacts right here.  I have a story map and definitely go back to the story map if you have one.  Do you really consult like user stories and requirements so you can understand what will be on every  page?  We even did user flows as well and we're going to get into that right now.  So consult your user flows and your site map.  You know, as I consult my site map, I'm always looking at the key requirements and hierarchies for  a certain page.  I want to know what is the most and least important thing that should be there.  You know, different user stories are really great because they're better indicator of what exactly  needs to be built from a user's perspective and a proper like if you have a story map, like I mentioned  before, we would have user stories for every single instance throughout the product journey and then  we would come together to discuss which is like the riskiest part of the product we want to tackle first.  So like for our client, we probably want to tackle search or the home page or maybe the initial registration,  all those different points where it really depends on users actually finding products or registering  their interests.  So that way the product can actually be successful.  They're high traffic areas and the interactions are pretty integral to the user goal and we need to  get them right to succeed.  I always, and I mean always tackle the riskiest features first.  So like I mentioned before, that's a perfect segue into this because everyone has a different definition  of what risk is and it could mean a lot of different things.  It could be features that dictate the success of the product.  It could be certain assumptions that your team and client have for a certain feature.  When I'm in a kickoff meeting or I'm talking to clients, I really kind of I have a list of risky assumptions  that we have as well.  And I mark all those things down.  Anything from what we assume the user wants or assume will be a good feature or certain things like  risks.  There are high traffic areas that really depend on nailing the interaction in order to succeed for the  business for our client.  If we release a search that just doesn't work or the interaction is way too complex, the product essentially  will fail.  So there's a lot of things like that that we need to account for and we should probably be focusing  a lot of our attention on like in comparison to another feature like profile or a wish list.  So always keep that in mind.  Another big thing is to bring your team into the process.  I mean, this is huge.  You should often be talking to every member of your team.  It doesn't matter.  Product managers for business goals, developers for development strategy.  You can even talk to quality assurance people like quality analyst.  People talk about just how certain things work within the product and what their expectations are.  Other disciplines will provide priceless insight into the ways you can build those wireframes, so make  sure that you include others in your process.  It may be a business goal that you aren't meeting or a technical challenge that you may have.  Like for certain interactions you want to come to life.  So tap into your peers example of trying to do things that are way too hard to develop.  So if you have a wireframe that is just way too complex, you should definitely be talking to your developers.  I often take a look at Dribble and I mentioned dribble a lot because it's a great place to get inspiration  and all that.  But the majority of the designs showcased there will probably never be built and have never been built  because they just are way too complex and time consuming.  I'm not saying that it is impossible because everything is possible with enough time and money, but  most times you want to build your way up to something that is like considered perfect and we may release  in different stages, whether that be like a minimum viable product that has only the features that  you truly need to validate if your product has any legs.  Sometimes we may be releasing on top of that the next best features.  And over time we'll get to a point where we can really hone in on the design and polish different things.  But generally you want to release in kind of waves instead of building out a product from 0 to 100.  You want to get like 25% of the way there.  Build another set of features, improve on other features based off of what you've learned from your  wireframe testing and even just basic prototype testing.  So remember loop your team in.  It's really going to help you understand what you can and cannot build.  It also really help you understand what kind of like different business goals you may have that you  haven't considered.  Maybe stakeholders have certain goals.  So these are the tips I often give other designers for when we want to actually use wireframes and when  we actually want to create our own.  So follow these tips and you'll be well on your way to making some awesome wireframes that are based  off of facts and different types of data and are used to actually validate everyone's assumptions.