The topic is tree traversals.  Traversing means visiting all the elements  or visiting all the nodes.  If a data structure is linear,  then we can traverse in two methods.  First to last, that is forward,  or last to first, backward.  But when it is nonlinear, then what are the possibilities?  So for binary trees, these are possible traversals,  preorder, inorder, postorder, and level order.  So let us learn about these traversals.  So first, I will read all their definitions.  Preorder means visiting a node first, visiting any node,  then performing preorder on its left subtree  and performing preorder on its right subtree.  Usually, we read it like this.  Root, we say root, left, right.  But this is the perfect definition of preorder.  Then inorder traversal.  First, perform inorder traversal on left subtree,  then visit a node,  then perform inorder traversal on right subtree.  Then postorder traversal.  Perform postorder on left subtree,  right subtree, then visit a node.  And last one,  level order means visit all the nodes level by level.  So here, I have example trees of height one.  That's small trees.  Let us see what is the result of these traversals.  So first tree, I will take preorder of this one.  I'll write in short, pre.  Preorder means first root or a node A,  then go on its left, then go on its right.  So A, B, C is preorder.  Then what is inorder?  First, left.  Then that node A, then it's right.  So B, A, C is inorder.  Then postorder.  First left, B, then right, C, then A.  This is postorder.  And the level order for this one will be A, next level B, C.  So A, B, C. First level A, the next level B, C.  Then here, I have taken only two nodes.  That is a root node and its left child, only two nodes.  Let us see what will be the result of these traversals.  First, preorder.  First root A, then left B.  There is no right, leave it.  Then inorder.  First left, then root.  There is no right, leave it.  Postorder.  First left, then right.  There is no right, then take root.  Then level order.  First level A,  the next level only B is there, B.  So if you observe in this,  inorder and postorder are same for that particular tree  because it is not having right child.  So post and inorder are same.  Now one more tree I have, let us write the preorder.  First root, root, then left.  There is no left, then right. Okay, take it right.  Then inorder.  First left, there is no left.  Then take root, root, then right B.  Here in this tree, preorder and inorder are same.  Then postorder.  First left, there is no left.  Then go to right, okay, take right, then root A.  Then level order.  Level by level, first A.  Second level, there is no element here.  Only this element is there, so take B.  So for these small examples,  I have shown you how these traversals are.  So actually, we have understood what is the meaning  of these traversals.  Now if the tree is larger,  if it is bigger, then how it is performed?  Let us look at.  Now for a bigger problem,  a bigger tree, let us find the traversal.  So the traversals that I'm going to show you are based  on the definitions we saw.  Then there is a shortcut or easy method  for finding the traversal.  Just by looking at a tree,  you can tell the traversal  that I will show you how to do that.  But now let us follow the definition.  As per the definition,  I will show you how to find a traversal.  This tree is bigger.  We have just now seen a smaller-sized tree  and directly we were able to find the traversals.  So just three nodes where their height was two,  but the height is more.  So break this tree into smaller-sized trees,  means it's a large problem.  So break the problem into small-sized problems.  How we can do that, let us see.  See, this is root. Yes, root of a tree.  Then this is the main node,  then this is its left child and right child.  Left child is not just one node.  It is having its children also.  So make it as a separate subtree.  Then right child, it's not just a child.  It is having its own children also.  It is having its own family, so we can separate this family.  So this is a subtree and this is also subtree  and this is the root of main tree.  Now from main, if you see that is root,  left is a single block, right is a single block.  Then inside that, if you see again, it's a tree.  So this is based on the definition I'm doing.  Again, I'm telling you. Now let us find out preorder.  First root A, then left child.  This is a tree, okay, put the bracket.  Later, we will see what to do.  Then right child, this is not just one child.  It's a tree, subtree, so okay, put the bracket.  We'll see afterwards.  So this preorder is completed based on this tree.  It is completed, and those blanks are there.  We have to fill them.  Now for this bracket, this is the child, right?  What is the preorder for this one?  Three nodes directly, we know the answer.  B, D, E. Root, left, right.  So B, D, E.  Then what about this one? This belongs to this.  So this is a tree with just three nodes.  So we directly know the answer.  Root, left, right. C, F, G.  That's it, this is the preorder.  Let me open the brackets and write them.  A, B, D, E, C, F, G, this is the preorder.  So based on the definition, I have done it.  So this is the preorder.  Now next, I'll show you inorder.  Inorder of a tree.  For this root or for this node, first left.  This is not just one node, it's a subtree.  Okay, put the brackets, we will see it afterwards.  Now parent, now parent that is root.  Take this node, then right child.  It's not a child, it's a subtree.  Okay, put the brackets, we will see it afterwards.  So left, root, right. Left, root, right.  This is over.  Next, fill this bracket, inorder traversal of this one.  So there are only three nodes,  we know the inorder traversal.  That is a D, B, E. Left, root, right.  D, B, E.  Then inorder traversal of this part, that is F, C, G.  F, C, G.  I'll open the brackets and write it.  It is D, B, E, A, F, C, G. This is the inorder.  Let me finish postorder.  Postorder says first left, this is not just one node.  Then right, this is not just one node.  Then root, okay, take A.  Then what about this left?  There are three nodes, perform postorder, D, E, B.  So D, E, B.  This is the right child.  Perform postorder, only three nodes are there.  So F, G, C.  F, G, C.  Open the brackets.  D, E, B, F, G, C, A.  The last one, level by level.  First A, then the B, C,  then the D, E, F, G, that's all.  So here, I write the level order.  Level order is A, B, C, D,  E, F, G.  Yes, A, B, C, D, E, F, G.  So these traversals,  we have seen them based on the definition of a traversal.  So this is the perfect way to understand them.  But if a tree is given  and you have to find out what is the traversal,  if you have to find the result using pen and paper,  this is not a easy way to do.  Then there are some simple and easy methods available.  We'll look at those methods.  So now we will learn  how we can directly tell the traversal of a-

In this video, we will learn how to generate  a binary tree, using linked representation.  We have seen two representation,  array and linked representation.  So I'll be showing it for linked representation.  So for generating a binary tree,  we can start generating nodes from root node.  First we can create root node.  Then we can create left child and right child.  But when we are creating a left child and right child,  we should know whether the left child and right child  are there or not.  Like, this is a full binary or complete binary.  In this, every node is having both  left and right child also.  But here, some nodes are not having left child,  some are not having right child.  So first of all, we should know  whether a child is there or not there.  If it is there, then we can create and attach it.  So this is the main thing that we have to take care.  So this is the main thing that we have to take care.  We have to check if the child node is there,  then we will create it.  Then one more thing, we will generate it level by level.  So first we'll create root,  then we will create the nodes of first, second level,  then third level, then fourth level, so on.  So that same procedure,  we can use it for a full binary tree also.  That we can ask, a child is there or not?  But here we need not ask.  So I'll show you the procedure,  how to generate this tree in a linked representation.  So for generating a tree using link representation,  we need a queue data structure.  So I'm just drawing an array to show that it's a queue.  I will take a queue.  So this queue will have front point, array point  and all the mechanism you know already.  So I don't have to explain you it's mechanism,  just we will insert and delete the element from the queue.  Now let us start the procedure.  The very first step is, create root node.  So create one node  and make root poin on that node and insert the value,  then make this as none.  So assume that this is the only node now.  This is the first node and this is the only node.  Suppose the address of this node is 200.  So that address, insert it in the queue.  So we need addresses.  We don't want value five,  we want address of a node inserted here.  So this is the initial work that we have to do.  So once again, I repeat, take a queue, create root node,  insert the address of root node in the queue.  Now we are ready for repeating procedure.  So now the steps are repeating steps.  So if you look at one step, one or two steps,  you can understand rest.  Let us see what we have to do.  Take out this address from the queue, so 200.  And make some temporary pointer, P point on that address.  So P is pointing there.  Standing on that node, ask whether it is having left child.  So yes, as per the tree that we want to create,  yes it is having a left child.  Your left child is there.  So then create a new node with the help of temporary pointer  and insert the value, whatever the value is.  Then set these pointers as nil,  then as this is having left child,  so make this, P is left point on this node.  And suppose the address of this node is 210.  Then this new node, insert it into queue.  Now it's child is inserted.  So if child is there, then insert it.  Now next, for the same node P,  ask whether this node, having value five,  is it having a right child or not?  Yes, it is having a right child.  So as per the tree that we want to create,  there is the right child.  So okay, take the temporary pointer  and create a new node  and insert that value, six.  Make these as nil and the Ps right child  pointing on this one.  Suppose the address of this node is 230,  then insert that address, 230 in the queue.  That's all.  This has finished one step.  So what was the step?  I'll just repeat it quickly.  We took the pointers from the queue  and make P pointer and asked  whether left child is there or not  and we created it and insert et cetera.  Right child is there or not?  Yes, created and insert, et cetera.  Same thing will be repeating again and again.  So I'll be creating the entire tree.  But before going to the next step,  just one thing I want to tell you.  Here we have to ask whether left child is there or not.  If it is there, then we create.  Again ask, right child is there or not?  If yes, then create.  So instead of asking,  we can simply take the value of left child  and we can put a mark that,  if the value entered is minus one, then child is not there.  If it is other than minus one, let us say positive,  then the value is there.  Let us continue and create all the nodes  and generate the entire tree.  I will do these quickly  because already I have explained you.  Next step, take out the next address from the queue.  That is 210 and make the pointer P point on that,  so this is the node.  Then being here ask, what is the value of left side?  Left side is minus one.  So it is minus one, don't create anything.  Then take the value of right side.  The value is nine.  So create a new node with the help of temporary pointer, P.  Then enter the value, make these as nil.  P is right on this one.  Suppose the address of this node is 250,  insert 250 into the queue.  So we have finished with left hand right.  Now take out the next address from the queue,  that is 230 and make P point on that node.  And ask the left side value.  Left side value is a three.  So okay, create a new node  with the help of temporary pointer, P.  Insert the value, make this as nil,  then P is left should point on this one.  Suppose the address of this one is 300,  then insert the address into the queue.  Then ask the right child, right child is minus one.  So if the value is minus one, don't create anything.  So we have finished with left child, as well as right child.  Then next step, take out the rest from the queue, 250  and make P point on that one.  So this is 250.  Ask the left value, it's there.  So that is four.  So create a new node with the help of temporary pointer, P.  Insert the value, make this as nil  and make Ps left point on that one.  Suppose the address of this node is 350.  So insert 350 into the queue.  Then ask the right child, right child value is there,  yes it is two, so it is not minus one.  So take the value  and create a new node with the help of temporary pointer.  Insert the value and make this as nil.  Ps right on this one.  And suppose the address is 370,  then insert the address 370 into the queue and continue.  Take out the address from the queue.  That is 300.  So make P point on that one.  Ask for the left child.  It is minus one, don't create.  Then ask for the right child, minus one, don't create.  Because there are no left child and right child  for this one.  Then take out the next address from the queue,  that is 350 and make P point on that one.  Ask for the left child.  It's not there.  Ask for the right child, minus one, not there.  Then move to next.  So take out the address,  370 and make P point on that node, 370.  Ask for the left, child minus one, it's not there.  Ask for the right child, minus one, it's not there.  Then take out address From queue.  There's nothing in the queue.  Queue became empty.  So stop.  It's the end of the procedure.  And we have generated a tree, in heap.  And this is the root which is holding the entire tree.  So we have learned the procedure,  how to generate a tree with the help of queue.  Now next we have to write a function for generating a tree.  So I will show you the program code  for generating this tree with the help of queue.

In this video we'll look at recursive functions  for tree traversals.  That are preorder, inorder, and postorder.  So already I have an example ready.  Let us start with preorder.  For traversals I have taken an example tree  with a linked representation.  These are the nodes with the data inside the node  and this is the address of a node.  Below each node it's address is written.  This is a recursive function for preorder traversal.  So let us read the function  then I will show how this function will find out preorder  of this tree.  The function is taking a parameter that is root of a tree.  So we'll pass root to that one.  Suppose if you're calling, then we call it as preorder root.  So we'll pass the address of the root node,  that is 200 to this one.  So here the parameter name is t.  Now inside the function it'll check if t is not null.  Well, so there is some node.  If there is some node, then it'll perform three steps.  Print the data from that node.  Second step, call itself recursively upon left child.  Third step, call itself recursively upon right child.  So these are the three steps it'll perform.  As it is recursive it'll call itself again and again  until entire tree is traversed in preorder traversal.  We already know how recursive function works.  We have seen their tracing,  we have generated the tracing tree.  And we also know that stack is used by recursive function.  For each call, activation records are created  in the system stack.  So similarly, let us trace this preorder function  upon this tree.  So let us generate a tracing tree.  So for tracing tree, I will take a stack also.  So here I will create a stack, that is system stack,  to show how the activation records are created  for each call.  Let us start tracing that function using tracing three.  First time when the function is called by passing root,  root is the address of the first node, that is 200.  So the function is called with the address 200, pre 200.  In short, I'm writing just pre. First call, pre 200.  So as root is 200, 200 is passed.  So once the function is called  an activation record is created.  Activation record will contain all the variables  that are used by that function.  So what are the variables used in a function?  Only t is used.  So that is the address, so I'll write down just address 200.  So activation record will be created where t value is 200.  Then let us execute. First, statement t is not null.  Yes, 200 is not null. 200 is not null.  Then perform three steps. So three steps.  First step is print the data.  Print data of this node. Eight.  Then second step, call itself again on left child.  Left child address is 210. Call itself again on 210.  The next, third step, call itself again on the right child.  We'll do it afterwards. First, let us finish this one.  So this call, what happens?  Again, an activation record is created  with the t value as 210.  Before continuing, let me write down the output that we got.  So far, value eight is printed. Value eight is printed.  Now for this call, 210,  let us start the procedure once again.  210 is not null. Yes, not null.  Three steps. Print, call on left, call on right.  Print the data. So 210 value is three.  Then call itself again upon left child.  That is 270.  Call itself, third step, upon right child.  We will do it afterwards. First of all, this has to finish.  Now for this call, activation record is created.  This is with 270.  For this 270 and the function is called again,  again, t is not null.  Yes, it is 270. It is not null.  Perform three steps.  So three steps, we know the steps very well.  Now I'll not be checking every time here, we know the steps.  Print, call upon left side, call upon right side.  I will be following these three steps every time.  So now this is not null.  So print the value. Four.  Call itself upon left child. What is left child?  Null. This is null.  Just I'm writing p here for preorder.  Then again, the activation record is created with the null.  Now this time, t is not null. No, no, it is null.  So it'll not enter into this if and ends.  So this function terminates without doing anything.  So it's activation record is deleted.  Once this is deleted  it'll go back to the previous function call.  Previous function call was 270.  In that function call, out of three steps,  two steps are completed, printing and going on left child.  Now what is remaining? Go on the right side.  So p of, what is right side here for this node? 270.  It is here at 270.  So right side is null, right side is null.  So again, it'll call itself with null.  So again, the activation record is created  at the same place.  A new activation record is created with the t equal to null.  But this call is different. This was over already.  This is a new call.  So again, for this call, t is not null? No, no, t is null.  So it'll not enter inside if, nothing is done.  So this will terminate.  Once this terminates, its activation record is deleted  and it goes back to the previous function call, that is 270.  Back on this one.  As per 270, all three steps are completed.  Three steps are completed. So this is also completed.  Go back to the previous call. 210.  This one. This one.  For this call, two steps are over,  printing and calling on left side.  Calling on left side. This one.  Now it has to call on right side. That is 300.  So it'll call itself upon right side. That is 300.  So for 300, a new activation record is created  at this place for different function call.  Now this is not null. Three steps.  So I'll perform those three steps quickly.  First one is print the value. So what is the value?  Nine. Nine is printed.  Then call itself again for left child. That is zero.  So activation record is created once again  but this terminates.  So this is over. Back to this one.  Third step. Call upon right side.  This is also null. So new activation record is created.  This is null. So this terminates.  So this is over. Go back to this call.  This call, three steps are over. All three steps are over.  So this call finishes. So this ends.  Now it goes back to 210. This one.  For this one, all three steps are completed.  Printing, call upon left child, call upon right child.  So below this there are more steps that are finished.  These are also finished. So this function call has finished.  So it'll go back to previous call. This one, main call.  So out of this, two steps are completed.  Third step is remaining.  So I'll stretch this little more here.  So third step, it has to perform. That is go on right child.  Pre upon right child. Right child is 230.  New activation record is created about this one  with a 230 for this call.  This was already completed, 210. So it is calling this one.  This is not null.  So not null means three steps it has to perform.  Print the value, call upon left child,  call upon right child.  So print the value.  So what is the value? Five.  Then call upon left child. Preorder of left.  That is 310. Right child afterwards.  First, 310. A new activation record is created with 310.  For this, again, not null. Three steps.  So print a 310's value. What is the value inside that?  Seven. Then call itself for null.  So t assign zero. New activation record is created.  But this ends, so this is terminated. So this is deleted.  Goes back to this call. This call.  Again, p zero is called for right child, t zero.  This terminates. It ends.  Goes back to this call.  This is completed. So this is deleted.  Then go back to this call. 320.  So p for right child, 320.  320 for this one.  It'll print a two  and it'll call itself for zero and zero, okay?  So two more zeros are created.  Then they are deleted. This is over.  So 320 is finished. So 320 is finished.  Then 230 is also finished. Then this is also finished.  Did not write the output.  Let us check and write the output.  First, eight was printed, then three was printed, then four.  Then nine was printed, then five, then seven, then two.  So this is the output of preorder.  So tracing tree, it has expanded like anything.  So once you know how this tree is generated  if you are familiar with this tree  you can even work out upon this tree structure itself.  You don't have to generate a huge tree  but you have to do it once.  Then you get the idea how to do it directly upon the tree.  Now let us analyze the three.  First of all, total, how many calls are there?  Let us check the number of calls.  1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7.  Then 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15.  Total 15 calls.  Actually, if you see these with addresses  that are equal to nodes, and these nulls are for nulls.  So if you remember, we already saw that if there are n nodes  there will be n plus one null pointers.  So total number of calls are 2n plus one.  n for number of nodes,  then n plus one for number of null pointers.  So total number of calls are 2n plus one.  Then once again, I will show you  in which order the calls are made.  This was the first call, second call,  third and fourth call, fifth call.  Then this was the sixth call.  Then this was seventh call and eighth call.  Then go back and come this side, this is the ninth call.  10th call, 11th, 12th.  Go back and come this side, 13th call, 14th, and 15th call.  In this order these calls are made.  If you know in which order the calls are made  then you have understood the procedure, how it's working.  Then let us look at the stack.  How many activation records were created and destroyed?  Depends on the number of calls. Total 15 calls.  So 15 activation records were created and destroyed.  But you see, at the time  how many activation records were there?  1, 2, 3, 4.  1, 2, 3. Three levels are there, plus one.  Because for nulls also calls are made, right?  So it depends on this vertical dimension of a tree.  That is, height of a tree.  No doubt it is four, but the height is 0, 1, 2.  Height is two only, but they are four.  Don't go on count. Don't go on count.  It is dependent on height.  So I can say that the size of the stack  will be height plus two, whatever the height may be.  So if I write height plus two  then I can say that it is dependent on height value.  That two is constant, always two you'll be adding.  So the actual size depends on height.  So yes, saying that depends on height is not wrong, right?  So don't go on the count always.  So how many activations course are created?  What is the size of the stack?  It depends on the height of a tree.  That's all. That's the procedure I have analyzed.  So in the next procedure, in the coming procedure  I may not be showing stack every time.  You know how it works.  I'll try to keep the same example  so that you already know about this  and you already know the tracing tree.  So with the minimum work, I will try to show you the tracing  of remaining functions upon three.

Let us look at inorder traversal upon a tree.  So already I have a tree available here  and a recursive inorder traversal function.  This is a recursive function.  It's similar to pre-order.  What is the difference?  Function name is different.  Yes, it is inorder.  So function name  is different, then three steps.  Yes, it is having three steps  but if you observe, in pre-order  print f was in the beginning,  fastest step was print f.  Then pre-order calls were there.  Two calls were there.  But now two calls are these calls  and the print f is in between them.  So it is inorder.  So guess how to write post order.  Print f should be at the end.  Yes, print f should be at the end.  That's post order.  Now let me show you how  this function works upon this tree.  So I will just show you  the tracing tree of this function.  I will not show the stack.  Already we have seen detail in pre-order.  So let us just generate tracing tree  and understand how inorder is working.  Here I'll be writing the output,  first time when the function is called inorder.  First time the address  of this route is passed.  That is 200, right?  So first time when we call,  we call it like this inorder  and we pass route.  So 200 is passed.  So it will take the address.  Now, wait a minute.  Function takes addresses,  but addresses may confuse us.  From the tree, if I ask you to read,  you will try to read values only, data only.  So we prefer data.  So addresses may confuse.  So instead of writing addresses  I will write on data.  If at all anywhere required,  I will write on address.  We know addresses are passed,  but I will try to write data.  So instead of 200,  let us say it is called  upon a node in which data is eight.  So that makes sense to us, right?  So let us continue.  This is not nulls,  so it has to perform three steps.  First step is call itself upon left child.  Second is print the data  and third is call itself upon right child.  So the first step happens  that is calling itself  upon left child.  The left child is three.  So it will call itself upon left child.  That is three and the second step printing  it is done afterwards.  Let us finish this, then calling  upon right child will be done afterwards.  First, let us finish this function  that is inorder upon node three.  Now for node three, it is not null.  Yes.  Again, three steps.  Call upon left child, print  and call upon right child.  Call upon left child, print  and call upon right child.  So first step is call upon left child.  Inorder of left child node is four.  First it will call itself upon left,  then other two steps.  First let us finish this.  Then we will perform other two steps.  Then what about this value four?  It is not null.  Again, perform three steps.  So go on left side.  So this time it will be null.  Inorder of null.  Inorder of null,  nothing will happen.  Then, what is the second step?  Print data.  So this time it will print data.  Value four is printed.  Then what is the next step?  Go on the right side.  So what is there  on the right side of four?  Null.  So again, for the right side  also it is inorder of null.  Then nothing will happen.  See, this is not value zero.  Actually I'm showing values here.  But here I have to show null.  So I'm writing zero to show that this is null.  Next, this has finished.  It will go back to this node, that is third node.  This one.  For this first step is completed.  Upon left side, everything is completed.  Now the next step is print.  So it will print data.  The value is three, right here already we have  the value three.  So first value that was printed was four.  Now the next value is a three.  Then third step, it has to perform.  That is go on the right hand side  of a three, node three.  What is there?  It will call upon node nine.  Again, three steps go to left,  print the value  go to right.  For left it is null nothing.  So print nine.  Nine.  Then go on right side.  There is nothing.  This is completed.  So this is also completed.  All three steps.  Go back.  Then here, print eight.  This is the step remaining.  See this portion is completed,  totally completed.  Eight, print eight.  Then go to right side.  So for right side, right side notice five.  Inorder of five, for this go  to left side, inorder of seven.  Other two steps are remaining  for inorder of seven,  left side inorder of zero,  nothing is there.  Then print seven inorder of zero,  nothing is there.  So seven is printed.  This is completed.  Go back to this one.  Print five call upon right side,  right side is two.  Two.  For this, upon left side, nothing is there.  Print two.  Then upon right side, nothing is there.  So there's nothing.  They all terminate, right?  Huh.  So the values that were printed  after this was five and two.  So the output is four, three, nine,  eight, seven, five, two.  Let us do it directly, by moving finger around it.  I said that for inorder  keep your finger on the top of this node, right?  Put it in this direction,  right up, upward direction.  So let us move around.  We reach the bottom of four.  Four.  Then get inside.  We is the bottom of three.  Yes, three.  Then bottom of nine, yes, nine.  Then get inside, we reach the bottom of eight.  Eight.  Bottom of seven.  Seven.  Bottom of five  Five and bottom of two.  Two.  Finished.  So answer is correct.  I have shown you three methods.  In all three methods,  I was taking the bottom of a node, right?  So if you observe here, inorder,  see printing is done in between.  In between.  Printing is done in between, left child call  and right child call.  So between left and right child printing is done.  So that's how if I move a finger around  like this, see four, then three,  then nine, then eight.  That's what I have shown you.  In pre-order, if you observe  or if you go back to the previous video  and watch pre-order printing was done first.  So it was on the left hand side.  What happens to the post order?  Printing will be done afterwards.  Yes.  So if you want to modify  this function right on print if  at then, that is post order.  So I don't have to show you post order.  Post order is in student exercise.  You can do it.  It's a small function.  You can write on that function.  So pending will be done afterwards.  Now let us do some analysis.  Total how many calls?  One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine  10, 11, 12, 12, 13, 14, 15.  So 15 calls, we saw them  in pre-order also 15 calls were there.  How many nodes are there?  N nodes, seven nodes are there, right?  Then how many null pointers,  n plus one null pointers are there.  So for each node  a call is made and also for null pointers,  calls are made.  So total calls are two n plus one.  So total calls are two n plus one.  Now one thing I have to tell you,  I did not say that in pre-order,  what's the time complexity  of this traversal?  It depends on how much work it is doing.  What the work it is doing.  It is calling and every call  it is trying to print, if possible.  Just printing one step only.  How many times it is printing  depends on the number of calls.  So how many calls are there?  Two n plus one.  So what is the degree of this polynomial?  And so the time complexity  of traversal is n.  Remember this, the time complexity  of all the traversal  or whatever you do upon a binary tree.  Most of the time it is n.  Now, next, let us look at the order  in which the calls are made.  See, this is the first call.  This is the second call.  Third, fourth call.  Fifth call.  Go back, sixth call.  Then come the side.  Seventh call, go back and come the side.  Eighth call.  Go back and this side.  Ninth call, 10th call, 11th.  Go back and call the side.  12th call, 13th call, 14th call, 15th call.  You can observe that the order in which the calls  are made is same as pre-order.  In pre-order also same thing was happening  because the function  is calling itself two times  upon the same tree,  then same amount of calls will be done.  But the difference in pre-order  and in this one is printing was done beforehand.  Printing is done in between two calls.  That's only the difference.  So the calls will be same only.  What will be the size of the stack.  Size of the stack will be same.  That depends on the height of a tree.  Height plus two, we analyze that time.  So the size of the stack  will be height plus two.  So you can say order of edge,  that height of a tree  if you remember height  of a tree can range from log n to n.  Where n here is the number of nodes.  So in our example, the height is log n,  but if it is a skewed tree,  then the height will be n.  So it depends on the height.  So usually we don't write order of h.  Any other variable we don't use.  We use n only.  So that h means either it can be login or n.  So minimum is login,  maximum is n.  So that's all about inorder.  And post order also gave you  the idea, you have to write  on the function for post order.

In this video, we will learn how to write  Iterative Tree Traversals.  We have already seen a Recursive Tree Traversal.  We have seen Recursive Functions.  Now we will write Iterative Functions  for Preorder, Inorder, and Postorder.  Recursive functions we already saw.  So if you want to convert a recursive function  into iterative function that is a function with a loop,  then you may have to use your own stack.  It's not necessary always that depends on the procedure.  So in some procedure you may need to have your own stack  means you have to use your own stack and iteration.  So that's what is the exam.  In this example, we are going to use a stack.  Without stack we cannot convert a recursion to iteration.  So first of all, I will explain you the procedure,  then after that I will write a function also.  So let us start with the preorder.  Let me show you how we can perform  preorder iteratively without repercussion.  Let us perform it upon this tree.  As I said, I may require a stack.  So beforehand I will draw a stack and keep it ready.  Maybe it is useful.  And here I'm going to write on the output.  And one more thing is preorder steps are first print,  then perform preorder on left child  and perform preorder on right child.  that is root, left, right?  So root means print.  So first print then go to left side, then go to right side.  So let us start and follow these steps.  Okay, so let us start from root node.  T is here. This is the root node.  What's the first thing I have to do?  Print data. So I will print that data.  Eight is printed, then move on to left.  Okay, I'm moving on to left.  Okay.  Then on this again, what I have to do, print the data.  Okay, printed three, then do what?  Go to left side.  Okay, I'll go on to left side.  Then print the data.  First step here is print data for this node.  Then go to left side. Okay, I will go on left side.  Now T became null.  Not do what? Go to right side.  Watch carefully.  Go to right side. Whose right side?  This node's right side.  Do you have the address of that node?  No, T is there. So what is T now?  T is null.  Null means it is nowhere on the tree.  So T became null.  How do you get the address of this node?  The address of this node is with this node  and this address of this node is with this one  and that is with root.  So I should again come from root.  That's what...  This is the problem.  So I should go back to this node  and again remember, I should go back to this node also  to go on the right side.  So I need those addresses.  Then how to know those addresses?  I should have pushed them in the stack.  Yes, that's what I missed.  So let me start over once again.  I'll remove this.  Let us start.  T first step print data.  Print eight.  Then what to do?  Go on left.  Going on left, but again I have to come back  on this node so that I can go on right.  So I need the address of this node.  So I have not written addresses here.  So I will write down address of that node eight.  Whatever the address may be.  I don't know, right?  Then go to left child.  Okay, now move T here.  Now what to do with this node?  Print the data.  Okay, print data three.  Then you have to go on left.  But before going on left  push the address of that node containing data three,  address of that node into the stack.  That's perfect.  Then go to left child.  What to do here?  Print four.  Push the address of this one into the stack.  After pushing got to left child.  Now T became null.  T became null.  See T is null but stack is not empty.  Stack is not empty, right?  Okay, continue.  What I want? I want the address of this node.  Pop out the address of four, go to this node.  So pop out and give it to T.  So T knows the address of this node.  Now it's standing here, right?  So when it's standing here, go on the right side.  So the step is pop out, go to that node  and move to its right child, then continue.  Again, null.  See T is null but the stack is not empty.  Pop out an address.  That's what address of three.  Okay, go to this node then move to right side.  Now continue.  For this node what we have to do?  Print, push the address into the stack.  So only one address is there in the stack.  So here it will be inserted.  Then go to left side.  It is null.  For this null, what we are doing?  Pop out an address, take a T upon that address  and then move T upon right side.  So right now also it is null.  It's null and the stack is not empty.  Pop out this address.  Eight, take a T over there.  Okay, then move to the right side.  So whenever it is null, we are doing this, right? right  Continue, T is not null.  Yes, so what to do?  Print five, right?  And push the address of that five into the stack.  Address of five into the stack.  There's a free space now.  Then move T to left child.  Again T is not null.  Do what?  Print seven.  Go to left child, before going to left child  insert the address of seven into the stack  and go to left child.  T is null.  Null means what we are doing?  Pop out the address,  go to that node and move to its right child.  So whenever T is null, we are doing this.  Again T is null.  Pop out the address,  Go to that node  and move to right child.  T is not null.  When not null, print two,  go to left side for left child,  again push the address of that node  when you're going on the left child,  put the address and go to left child.  T is null.  Pop out an address,  go to that node and move to right child.  So T is again null.  Now T is null and there is nothing in the stack.  There's nothing in the stack.  So we have finished the procedure and we got the result.  This is preorder.  So this is how the procedure works.  So when to stop this procedure?  When T is null as well as a stack is empty.  Now let us verify our result.  Preorder, I'll just trace with the finger  and show you preorder.  As I said, we should point the finger in this direction.  Left hand side of eight.  Yes, eight.  The next is three, yes, four.  That didn't get inside.  Nine, then get inside five, then seven, then two.  Yes, it is perfect.  Now I have to write on the program code.  So already I kept few things there.  A function preorder taking pointer T  upon root and a stack is also available.  Assume that stack is already initialized.  What are the steps?  We were repeating the steps.  How long T is not null and stack is not empty.  Okay, so repeating the statements,  I will write on while loop.  While T not equal to null.  R, it's not N, R,  not is empty.  st, status not empty.  So while T is not null and the stack is not empty,  if a T is null, false.  Stack is also empty, false.  Both are false, it will stop.  So I should use R.  The steps are very simple,  if T is not null.  Let us see the step again from here to get the idea.  If T is not null, print data, push address,  go to left child, right?  If it is not null.  So here, if T is not null, then three things.  Print data, push the address in the stack  and move to left child.  Print the data, push T into the stack  and move to left child.  If it is not null.  If it is null, else what we should do?  Else what we should do?  See when it was null, what we were doing here?  What we did at that time?  When it was null, we pop out an address  and go to right child.  So pop out an address from the stack  and go to right child.  That's all, end of loop, end of function.  That's all is the iterative function  for preorder traversal, which is utilizing a stack.  And one more important thing is the stack  should be of which type.  Integer type, character type, which type?  It is storing the addresses.  So it should be of a type address of this node.  So while writing the program, I will show you that.

Next with a small change,  I can convert this procedure  for in inorder traversal.  So let us look at inorder traversal.  Let us see inorder traversal.  inorder traversal says,  first go to the left child,  then print, then go to right child.  So left root, right,  that's how we read it.  Let me quickly trace this and show you.  We need a stack and we start from root then.  So initially that T is not null  and the stack is empty.  Now let us look at this preorder.  See, preorder first if T is not null.  Yes, first step is printing.  But in inorder,  first we go to left child  then we should not print.  Okay, let us move to left child.  But as per preorder,  first push the address  and go to left child.  Okay, push the address of that eight  and go to left child.  Okay, we will go do this.  Then again T is not null print.  We'll not print.  This step will not perform.  Push and go to left child  push the address of three and move to left child.  Okay, move to left child.  Then this is not null again.  So push the address of this four  into the stack and go to left child.  Now this is null.  If it is not null,  these steps we are performing.  We were not performing this printf.  We were performing two step.  Now it is null else part.  So in this preorder what we are doing,  pop out go to right child.  Watch here, pop out.  We'll get that as a four.  Now before going to right child,  we should print.  Before going to right child  we should print in inorder.  So printing should be done now.  We are about to go on right child,  see this about to go on right child.  So before that first you print.  So it means I should print here first.  So print this first,  then move T to R child.  So printf is removed from here and that's all.  So with a little bit of observation,  I can say that in the preorder,  before going on left child we were printing  but in inorder before going on,  right child printed.  So this function becomes inorder.  So a minor change has made it inorder.  That's all about inorder.  One thing I want to show you,  what is the time complexity of this function?  In preorder also we saw an inorder also,  same function just a change of position of printf function.  This a minor changes there.  So what is the time complexity?  Loop is there, loop.  How long?  As many nodes are there  that many times it'll repeat.  So what is the time complexity?  Order of N, order of N.  And what was the size of the stack?  Depends on the height of a tree.  Yes, stack depends on the height of a tree.  Now postorder.  Postorder is little complex.  So I'll keep the same code.  Let us see what about postorder?  Let us see postorder.  postorder says that,  first go on left child then right child,  then print data,  go to left also.  Right Also means you should not print here.  So after finishing both left and right,  we should print.  So let us take a stack and trace this one.  So I'll take a stack start from here.  See the procedure will be similar  to this one only with some changes.  So what changes required there?  To study that we will trace it  with the help of that function only.  Actually the function is for inorder  but where we require changes,  we will make the changes there.  So I will follow that procedure only and trace it.  So let us start T is on this one.  So T is not null.  What's the first step?  Push the address of that node into the stack, eight.  Then move to left child.  Okay, move to left child.  So T is not null.  So if it is not null,  push and move left.  So push the address of three and move left.  Push the address of four and move left.  No it is null.  So null means what we should do else.  Pop out, print and go to right child.  So let us do it pop out.  So this is deleted, T is here,  print and go to right child,  no don't print.  Postorder means first go to right child,  afterwards print,  left child over, right?  Go to right child, then print.  So we should not print this one.  We should not print.  It should not be printed.  Pop out and go to right child.  Okay, I will go to right child,  I'll go to right child.  So right child is what? Null.  If it is null pop out and go to right child.  So which one I get address of three,  oh, four I did not print.  I should print that four also.  That's it.  So the difference is,  I should push that address of four once again.  First time it was pushed,  so that we can go on right side.  Second time we need so that we can print it.  So before going to right child,  push the address of that four once again into the stack.  Once again push it,  then go to right child.  So I will write down the code afterwards.  So push it again and then go to right child.  (indistinct) is null once again,  pop out whose address we get?  Four's address.  Now see the second problem?  Second problem.  First time we pop out,  that was for right child.  This time we are popping out.  This is for printing.  We are back on four.  Now we should print.  Now how to know that,  that address falls for right side  and this address is for printing.  There should be some difference.  Yes, that's the problem.  So what we should do,  when we are pushing it second time,  we should push negative address.  Addresses cannot be negative.  No, no, you convert that address into an integer  and store negative at integer.  When you are using,  convert into an address positive address.  Okay, we can do that.  So push the address once again.  So both the time,  first time when you're pushing push positive.  Second time when you're pushing it is negative.  So positive address means go to right child,  negative address means print the data.  So I will directly modify that one  and you have to trace  the complete working on this example tree.  Okay, this is sufficient.  If I explain it'll be confusing, right?  So you take pen and paper  and trace this function.  So I will directly write on the function.  So I have explained you important points in this one  that we have to push the addresses two times.  So I will write on the code, right?  That's all.  With that I'll finish.  Tracing you do,  you take an example tree  and you trace everything  and generate the complete output by yourself.  So there's a student exercise.  I'm writing the code.  Pop out an address from the stack.  As I said the stack will be of integer type.  So I will take one long integer,  a temporary value T-E-M-P, okay?  So I'll pop out a value from the stack, pop st.  So I'll get an in integer value  in a temporary variable  now check whether it is positive or negative.  If it is positive means,  we have to push again and go to right child.  If it is negative means we should print.  So first check if it is positive.  If a temp is greater than zero means positive.  If it is positive, then do what?  Push the negative value of temp into the stack.  Push the negative value into the stack.  Then move to right side.  Temp is having an address  but actually it is integer value.  I typecasted it into an address.  Then caps R child  that T is moving onto its right child, okay?  This syntax I have written,  let us see how it works.  Okay, while writing the program  and once again, if the address is positive,  push the negative address once again  and move T to right child.  If it is not greater than zero, means else,  means it is less than equal to zero.  Anyway, it'll not be zero here.  So it is less negative.  If it is negative, then what we should do?  Print the data and again make T as null.  So print the data.  So print the data by typecasting  that numeric value into address.  So print the data and then make T as null.  So this is the extra work required for postorder.  We have to push the addresses two times.  One for going on right side,  one for printing.  So positive and negative addresses we are pushing.  This is the extra work  that we require postorder traversal.  So that's all  with the iterative version of tree traversals.

The topic is level order traversal of binary tree.  Here is an example of binary tree.  Already we have learned about level order.  Again, I will repeat it.  Level order means traversing all the vertices  of a tree level by level.  So first level is eight.  So if I write the output here, first level is eight.  Then second level, the first value is three,  next value is nine.  So three, then nine.  The next level, third level, seven, six, four.  The last level, five and two.  This is the output of level order.  So how actually it is done?  First visit root.  Root is visited, then visit it's children.  So the first child, left child, then right child  left child, right child.  Then children of left child, seven, children of right child.  Then it's children.  So first left child is only, left child is there.  So we went on five,  right child is not there.  Then the children of nine's children, that is this one, six.  So six's child is only two,  so only two is visited.  So this procedure requires a queue.  So I'll take an example queue and again I will traverse it  and show you how a queue can help us  in traversing in level order.  So, I have a queue ready here.  Let us traverse it once again.  So for that I will take a pointer, P.  First, visit root, visit root.  So, that is eight.  And insert the address of eight in the queue.  So address of eight.  So this was the first step or initial step.  Now the step is repeating step.  Let us look at repeating step,  Take out an address from the queue and give it to P.  So that is the address of eight only.  So okay, P will point on eight, again on eight.  Then visit it's left child, three.  Insert the address of three into queue.  Then visit it's right child, nine.  Insert the address of nine in the queue.  I'll just write nine.  That is address of nine.  So using P, we have visited left child  as well as right child.  Now it is over.  Work is over.  These are the steps.  Take out an address from the queue,  visit left child, insert it's address.  Then visit right child, insert it's address.  Now, continue repeating the steps.  Take out an address from the queue.  So the next address is of three.  So take a pointer, P upon that address.  Visit left child.  Okay, left child.  And insert the address of node seven into the queue.  Then visit right child, there is no right child.  If it is null, then we cannot visit.  So it is completed.  Then take out next address from the queue.  That is nine.  This is the new node.  Visit left child six, address of six into queue.  Then visit right child four, address of four into queue.  This work is over.  Then delete next address from the queue  and make P point on that one.  Visit left child five, push the address of five into queue.  Then right child, there is no right child.  Leave it.  Then take out next address, six.  Six P is pointing on six.  Left child, no left child.  Right child, yes, two.  Insert the address of two into queue.  That's over.  Take out next address, four.  Four, left child, no left child.  Right child, no right child.  Then come on five, five is not having any children.  Then take out two and move to two.  Visit left child of and right child of two.  There are no left and right child.  Now queue is empty.  Queue is empty.  Once the queue becomes empty, stop.  So take out an address, visit left child, right child.  That's all.  So the procedure is very simple.  But initially we have first visited root.  Then we have inserted the address of root into queue.  Let me write down a procedure for this one.  Yeah, procedure here.  Queue is ready, already have taken a queue.  Queue should be of type addresses of node.  It's not an integer queue or character queue,  address type queue.  So the data type of an array should be node type, okay?  While writing the program, I will show you that.  And also this queue should be initialized.  So initializing that front pointer  and rear pointer that we have to do.  Next.  First, the step I will perform, right?  P is a pointer.  That is, assume it is on root, right?  This is the root.  Then, first of all,  print the data off root.  Print off P's data.  So P is pointing on root,  so data is printed.  Then insert the address of this P, P into queue.  en queue this address in Q.  Now the procedure is a repeating procedure.  So I will write down loop while.  We have to stop when queue becomes empty,  so not is empty queue,  means as long as queue is not empty, continue.  First, the step is take out an address from queue.  So say de queue.  Take out an address from queue and take it in pointer P.  Then print left child if it is there.  if P'S left child is there,  Then print P's left child's data  and also insert the address of left child into queue.  Like this, this node's data is printed,  that is, three is printed  and the address of three is inserted,  or en queued in a queue.  Similarly, check for the right child.  If right child is there,  then print it and insert it into queue.  That's it.  Here, P's right child means if it is not null,  print the data and insert the address  of that right child into queue.  And this is the end of while loop.  This procedure will be repeating  and printing all the elements from a tree.  So that's all.  This is a in order procedure.

See, the topic is generating tree from traversals.  So already we have learned  that any two traversals are compulsory.  Out of that, one of the traversal must be in order.  So I have a pre-order and in order  and one more possible is post-order and in order.  Let us learn how to generate tree  from pre-order and in order.  So I'll show you the procedure.  Create a node.  Take all the elements of in order,  take an order as it is in the node.  Don't change the order.  Write the elements in the same order.  7, 6, 9, 3, 4,  5, 8, 2, 1.  As it is I have taken.  This is initial work.  Now, repeating procedure  means the steps will be repeating.  What to do?  Scan through pre-order, scan through pre-order  by taking one element at a time.  Then what to do with each element? Let us see.  First step I'm showing you.  Take the first element from left to right, right?  So first element is four.  So four is root.  So you remember, what will be the first element  in pre-order?  Root of a tree.  So four is the root of a tree.  So search for four, search, it is found.  Observe once again, search for four  in this list of elements.  Yes, it is found here.  So take four in one node, this is root.  Then what about the rest of the elements?  7, 6, 9, 3 on the left-hand side of 4.  7, 6, 9, 3 on the left-hand side  and these elements on right-hand side.  5, 8, 2, 1.  So 5, 8, 2, 1  on the right-hand side.  Yes, we got first node.  That is first root node.  If I tell you this step once again, first element, search,  then split, move to the next element.  Seven.  Search for seven, then seven where it will be  on the left-hand side or right-hand side?  See, as per pre-order, we'll be going on left-hand side.  If it is not found, then we'll go on right side.  So search in left-hand side.  Yes, seven is found, seven is found.  Then split, four was already there.  Then left-hand side, left child is seven.  Now, other elements, 6, 9, 3, all of them  are on the right-hand side of seven.  So okay, take them on  in a single node on the right-hand side of seven.  This part is as it is.  So searching and splitting.  Now let me do the rest of the nodes quickly.  Next element, nine, search.  It is found either in this list or this list.  This list found, split.  So here I will draw four on this side,  then seven on the left-hand side.  Then nine is on the right-hand side of seven.  Then what about the remaining elements?  Six and three.  They are on the different sides of nine.  So left-hand side takes six.  Right-hand side take three.  Yes, six on this side, three on this side.  This is completed.  Then right-hand side elements  are as it is, 5, 8, 2, 1, 5, 8, 2, 1.  Then move to the next element.  Six. Search.  It is found here and that's a single element.  Yes, we want single element only.  So it's perfect.  Don't do anything.  Next. Three.  Three. Search for three.  It is found here under a single element.  Don't do anything.  Next element, two, search.  It is found here, found here.  So there are more than one element.  So split.  So I will draw here.  So this side is already completed,  so I will take it as it is.  And here, new root is two, two.  So five and eight on the left-hand side,  five and eight.  On the right-hand side, one.  Yes. Next, move on to the next element.  That is five.  Search for five.  It is found here.  Yes, two elements are there.  So split, I will draw it here.  So four.  So this left-hand side is as it is.  Right-hand side two and one as it is.  Then this node, I have to take five.  Okay, take five.  What about eight?  Where it should be is on the right-hand side in the node.  So it'll go on the right-hand side only.  So this is on the right-hand side.  Continue, eight, search for eight.  Single element.  Don't do anything.  Move next, one.  Search for one, found, single element.  That's all.  This is a tree.  This is a unique tree.  Just one single tree.  For this tree,  this is the pre-order and this is the in order.  There is no other tree possible,  which gives same pre-order and in order.  So this is a unique tree.  So we are able to generate a unique tree  if a pre-order and in order is given.  And this is the procedure.  See this was the first step  and the second step, we have taken four.  And the third step, we have split at seven  because we're moving along  from left-hand side to right-hand side.  We were scanning pre-order from left to right.  Then fourth step, we have taken nine.  So automatically, got six and three also.  So this also completed.  Then next, here we selected two.  This was fourth, fifth, sixth.  Then this is seventh step I should say.  So in this step, two was splitted.  Then eighth step in this five was splitted.  So even eight was also splitted.  We got a tree.  This is the procedure.  Now analysis.  What is the time complexity? How much time it is taking?  So actually, we have done board work.  We have not written any code  or the pseudocode or algorithm.  Just based on the procedure only, we have to give the time.  So what was the work done?  We have scanned through pre-order,  all the elements we have scanned through them once.  So this is n.  Yes, but while scanning for every element,  what we were doing?  Searching for that element here to make it as root  or make it as a new node.  So we were searching for the element every time.  So for every element, we were searching.  So searching takes how much time? N time.  So how many times we have searched  for every element we have searched?  So n into n.  Searching is still taking n times.  Search takes n time.  And how many times we have done?  For n elements we have done.  So there are n elements.  So n element search for n time.  So this is n squared.  So the time taken by this procedure is n squared.  So that's all about this procedure.  So generating a tree from traversals is very important.  I will show you the program for this one.

Yeah, in this video we'll learn  about a function for counting nodes in a binary tree.  So already I have an example  binary tree and also a function available  and this function is recursive.  So just I will explain how this function works.  Let us trace the function  to understand the working of a function  so that you can write down similar functions,  if you require.  Let me read out this function  and explain few things  then I will show you tracing.  Function name is count  and I have taken some temporary variables, x and y.  These are local to a function.  Pointer name is p,  that should be a root node pointer.  If p is not null.  If p is not null,  then count itself upon left child,  count itself upon right child,  get the result of left child in x,  get the result of right child in y.  So two function calls,  on left child also, right child also.  Then for counting every node,  plus one should be added for every node, right?  One first node, second node, third node  one by one you have to go and adding.  So when adding is done,  whatever the result of left hand side  plus whatever the result of right hand side  plus one, this node.  Number of nodes on left side,  number of nodes on right side,  then plus one, this node.  So I have just read it out  so it makes sense  that this is counting the number of nodes  and it is doing recursively.  It is calling itself.  If a p is not null, do all these things.  If it is null, else part, this is else part.  I don't have to write else  because if itself is having a return,  so I don't have to write else.  Even you can write else,  then inside that, you can write this,  return 0,  means if there is no node,  if it's null then return 0.  Then one important thing I have to show you,  counting of a node is done in this line,  in this statement, just look at this,  and before counting,  it is going on left child and right child.  So first left, then right then count.  I'll change it.  Just listen, first left, then right, then print.  What is this?  First left, then right, then print.  This is post order.  Yes, this procedure or this function  is working in post order form.  This is working in post order form  and one thing I will tell you  what all the processing  you want to do upon binary trees,  most of the time,  you have to use post order form.  So post order is more commonly used upon binary trees  for doing any type of processing.  So now let me trace this and show you.  So already you know  how recursive function works,  so I will not spend much time.  Quickly I will show you tracing.  So I'm showing you tracing upon tree directly.  So first root, function is called upon root.  Then root is not null.  Yes, not null.  What are the steps when it is not null?  Three steps are there.  Find x, find y, then add them plus one and return.  So first find x.  Find x, call on the left child,  first finish first step,  then you go on second step y,  first finish, first step.  First step, go on left child  means it'll come on this node.  Upon this node, this is not null.  So again, x assigned, x assigned.  Call upon left child,  whatever the result you get,  you take it in x.  Okay, again, it is called here.  So this is not null.  On the left side, x assigned.  Call upon left side.  Left side is what? Null.  Here, left side is null.  Here, left side is null  means what is the result from this one?  Zero.  If it is not null, it is entering here.  If it is null, then it will return zero.  So from this side, the result will be zero.  I'll just extend and show you,  this side result will be zero.  So this x will contains zero.  It has called itself on the left side,  which was null.  So the value of x is zero, for which node?  Node 12.  So first step is finished for node 12,  then performed second step,  y is equals to right child,  y is equals to right child.  There is a node.  So for this, new call, fresh call,  so again for this node x,  x assign left child.  Then for this left child,  again it's not null.  So x assign left child.  So for this left, nothing is there,  null zero, so this will be zero.  Then for right,  for right also, it is zero.  Now for this node nine, two steps are over.  First step, second step,  then third step, x+y+1,  zero plus zero plus one as a return,  it'll go to this node in which variable x  because it was called on left side, one.  Then on this side, y,  for this side, x, there is nothing, null.  So zero, y, zero,  zero plus zero plus one,  one is returned.  Now for this node,  the left hand side,  x value also it knows,  y also it knows.  Two.  See I said it is in post order, right?  So this left, right, completed,  then wrote one plus one plus one, three  See this is giving the number of nodes below this one.  Now this is ready,  zero plus three, three plus one, four.  So four.  Then right side y, this is zero.  There is nothing on this side, null.  Go back, four plus one, four plus zero plus one, five.  See below this check,  one, two, three, four, five.  Five nodes are there.  Then go on the right hand side.  Then upon this one left hand side  upon this one left hand side,  null, zero,  right hand side, zero,  zero plus zero plus one,  one goes back to this one.  Then on this side y, left side x  left side x zero, y, zero, zero plus zero plus one  zero plus zero plus one, goes back, one.  This side, y is zero.  Now these two are added and return one.  So one plus zero, one, plus one, two. Two.  One plus two, three, plus one, four,  Now five plus four, nine plus one 10.  So the answer is 10.  So that's all, this is working in post order.  I'll make one small change in this code, right?  Then you have to tell me what this function will do.  Here, I will write on the statement,  if p, lchild  and p, rchild,  means p is left child is there,  is not null  and right child is also not null.  Then return x+y+1 else return x+y.  Then this if ends, this if,  and at last return zero.  Guess what this will do?  This condition, this condition is for both  left hand, right child are there.  So it means if both the children are there  then only it'll count one.  Otherwise one is not counted  means that node is not counted.  So it'll count only those nodes  who are having both the children,  so nodes with a degree two.  From this tree, this nodes will be counted.  Eight is having both the children,  four is having both the children,  five is having both the children.  So only three nodes will be counted.  So this, they'll count the number of nodes  which are having both the children,  left side as well as right side.  Just so I have introduced one condition  and it became a condition for counting  nodes with the degree two.  Change the condition to count leaf nodes.  Change the condition to count nodes with the degree one.  Whatever you like you can do.  Next, I will make one more change.  Return, there are no if-else,  x+y+p, is a data.  Can you tell me what will happen?  These data is added.  Yes, it'll add all these elements from a tree.  We'll get the sum of all the elements in a tree.  Then student exercise.  Here I'm modifying the code  so don't know what the function is doing, okay?  Function name, I will call it as fun  and this is fun is calling itself,  fun is calling itself.  I'm modifying it.  If x is greater than y,  return x+1 else return y+1  Take this and find out what this function is doing.  Right?  What this function is doing?  It's not adding x and y both,  either x+1 or y+1.  So for understanding  or knowing what that function is doing,  you have to trace it upon a tree  and observe your result.  Then you can find out.  So for example, you can take this tree there, right?  If you take just two, three nodes  you may not able to figure out what it is doing.  Take this type of tree  and trace that one and find the answer.  So that's all,  we have seen various functions upon a tree.  I have started with the counting  but I have also shown you  different functions on this one.