Stacks: Production Grade Compose
- Docker adds a new layer of abstraction to Swarm called
Stacks
- Stacks accept Compose files as their declarative definition for
services, networks, and volumes
- We use docker stack deploy rather then docker service create
- Stacks manages all those objects for us, including overlay network
per stack. Adds stack name to start of their name
- New deploy: key in Compose file. Can't do build:
- Compose now ignores deploy:, Swarm ignores build:
- docker-compose cli not needed on Swarm server

Secrets Storage
- Easiest "secure" solution for storing secrets in Swarm
- What is a Secret?
- Usernames and passwords
- TLS certificates and keys
- SSH keys
- Any data you would prefer not be "on front page of news"
- Supports generic strings or binary content up to 500Kb in size
- Doesn't require apps to be rewritten

Secrets Storage Cont.
- As of Docker 1.13.0 Swarm Raft DB is encrypted on disk
- Only stored on disk on Manager nodes
- Default is Managers and Workers "control plane" is TLS + Mutual
Auth
- Secrets are first stored in Swarm, then assigned to a Service(s)
- Only containers in assigned Service(s) can see them
- They look like files in container but are actually in-memory fs
- /run/secrets/<secret_name> or /run/secrets/
<secret_alias>
- Local docker-compose can use file-based secrets, but not secure

# Manage sensitive data with Docker secrets


## About secrets

In terms of Docker Swarm services, a _secret_ is a blob of data, such as a
password, SSH private key, SSL certificate, or another piece of data that should
not be transmitted over a network or stored unencrypted in a Dockerfile or in
your application's source code. You can use Docker _secrets_ to centrally manage
this data and securely transmit it to only those containers that need access to
it. Secrets are encrypted during transit and at rest in a Docker swarm. A given
secret is only accessible to those services which have been granted explicit
access to it, and only while those service tasks are running.

You can use secrets to manage any sensitive data which a container needs at
runtime but you don't want to store in the image or in source control, such as:

- Usernames and passwords
- TLS certificates and keys
- SSH keys
- Other important data such as the name of a database or internal server
- Generic strings or binary content (up to 500 kb in size)

> [!NOTE]
>
> Docker secrets are only available to swarm services, not to
> standalone containers. To use this feature, consider adapting your container
> to run as a service. Stateful containers can typically run with a scale of 1
> without changing the container code.

Another use case for using secrets is to provide a layer of abstraction between
the container and a set of credentials. Consider a scenario where you have
separate development, test, and production environments for your application.
Each of these environments can have different credentials, stored in the
development, test, and production swarms with the same secret name. Your
containers only need to know the name of the secret to function in all
three environments.

You can also use secrets to manage non-sensitive data, such as configuration
files. However, Docker supports the use of [configs](/engine/swarm/secrets/configs/)
for storing non-sensitive data. Configs are mounted into the container's
filesystem directly, without the use of a RAM disk.

### Windows support

Docker includes support for secrets on Windows containers. Where there are
differences in the implementations, they are called out in the
examples below. Keep the following notable differences in mind:

- Microsoft Windows has no built-in driver for managing RAM disks, so within
  running Windows containers, secrets are persisted in clear text to the
  container's root disk. However, the secrets are explicitly removed when a
  container stops. In addition, Windows does not support persisting a running
  container as an image using `docker commit` or similar commands.

- On Windows, we recommend enabling
  [BitLocker](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/cc732774(v=ws.11).aspx)
  on the volume containing the Docker root directory on the host machine to
  ensure that secrets for running containers are encrypted at rest.

- Secret files with custom targets are not directly bind-mounted into Windows
  containers, since Windows does not support non-directory file bind-mounts.
  Instead, secrets for a container are all mounted in
  `C:\ProgramData\Docker\internal\secrets` (an implementation detail which
  should not be relied upon by applications) within the container. Symbolic
  links are used to point from there to the desired target of the secret within
  the container. The default target is `C:\ProgramData\Docker\secrets`.

- When creating a service which uses Windows containers, the options to specify
  UID, GID, and mode are not supported for secrets. Secrets are currently only
  accessible by administrators and users with `system` access within the
  container.

## How Docker manages secrets

When you add a secret to the swarm, Docker sends the secret to the swarm manager
over a mutual TLS connection. The secret is stored in the Raft log, which is
encrypted. The entire Raft log is replicated across the other managers, ensuring
the same high availability guarantees for secrets as for the rest of the swarm
management data.

When you grant a newly-created or running service access to a secret, the
decrypted secret is mounted into the container in an in-memory filesystem. The
location of the mount point within the container defaults to
`/run/secrets/<secret_name>` in Linux containers, or
`C:\ProgramData\Docker\secrets` in Windows containers. You can also specify a
custom location.

You can update a service to grant it access to additional secrets or revoke its
access to a given secret at any time.

A node only has access to (encrypted) secrets if the node is a swarm manager or
if it is running service tasks which have been granted access to the secret.
When a container task stops running, the decrypted secrets shared to it are
unmounted from the in-memory filesystem for that container and flushed from the
node's memory.

If a node loses connectivity to the swarm while it is running a task container
with access to a secret, the task container still has access to its secrets, but
cannot receive updates until the node reconnects to the swarm.

You can add or inspect an individual secret at any time, or list all
secrets. You cannot remove a secret that a running service is
using. See [Rotate a secret](/engine/swarm/secrets/secrets/#example-rotate-a-secret) for a way to
remove a secret without disrupting running services.

To update or roll back secrets more easily, consider adding a version
number or date to the secret name. This is made easier by the ability to control
the mount point of the secret within a given container.

## Read more about `docker secret` commands

Use these links to read about specific commands, or continue to the
[example about using secrets with a service](/engine/swarm/secrets/secrets/#simple-example-get-started-with-secrets).

- [`docker secret create`](/reference/cli/docker/secret/create/)
- [`docker secret inspect`](/reference/cli/docker/secret/inspect/)
- [`docker secret ls`](/reference/cli/docker/secret/ls/)
- [`docker secret rm`](/reference/cli/docker/secret/rm/)
- [`--secret`](/reference/cli/docker/service/create/#secret) flag for `docker service create`
- [`--secret-add` and `--secret-rm`](/reference/cli/docker/service/update/#secret-add) flags for `docker service update`

## Examples

This section includes three graduated examples which illustrate how to use
Docker secrets. The images used in these examples have been updated to make it
easier to use Docker secrets. To find out how to modify your own images in
a similar way, see
[Build support for Docker Secrets into your images](#build-support-for-docker-secrets-into-your-images).

> [!NOTE]
>
> These examples use a single-Engine swarm and unscaled services for
> simplicity. The examples use Linux containers, but Windows containers also
> support secrets. See [Windows support](#windows-support).

### Defining and using secrets in compose files

Both the `docker-compose` and `docker stack` commands support defining secrets
in a compose file. See
[the Compose file reference](/reference/compose-file/legacy-versions/) for details.

### Simple example: Get started with secrets

This simple example shows how secrets work in just a few commands. For a
real-world example, continue to
[Intermediate example: Use secrets with a Nginx service](#intermediate-example-use-secrets-with-a-nginx-service).

1.  Add a secret to Docker. The `docker secret create` command reads standard
    input because the last argument, which represents the file to read the
    secret from, is set to `-`.

    ```console
    $ printf "This is a secret" | docker secret create my_secret_data -
    ```

2.  Create a `redis` service and grant it access to the secret. By default,
    the container can access the secret at `/run/secrets/<secret_name>`, but
    you can customize the file name on the container using the `target` option.

    ```console
    $ docker service  create --name redis --secret my_secret_data redis:alpine
    ```

3.  Verify that the task is running without issues using `docker service ps`. If
    everything is working, the output looks similar to this:

    ```console
    $ docker service ps redis

    ID            NAME     IMAGE         NODE              DESIRED STATE  CURRENT STATE          ERROR  PORTS
    bkna6bpn8r1a  redis.1  redis:alpine  ip-172-31-46-109  Running        Running 8 seconds ago
    ```

    If there were an error, and the task were failing and repeatedly restarting,
    you would see something like this:

    ```console
    $ docker service ps redis

    NAME                      IMAGE         NODE  DESIRED STATE  CURRENT STATE          ERROR                      PORTS
    redis.1.siftice35gla      redis:alpine  moby  Running        Running 4 seconds ago
     \_ redis.1.whum5b7gu13e  redis:alpine  moby  Shutdown       Failed 20 seconds ago      "task: non-zero exit (1)"
     \_ redis.1.2s6yorvd9zow  redis:alpine  moby  Shutdown       Failed 56 seconds ago      "task: non-zero exit (1)"
     \_ redis.1.ulfzrcyaf6pg  redis:alpine  moby  Shutdown       Failed about a minute ago  "task: non-zero exit (1)"
     \_ redis.1.wrny5v4xyps6  redis:alpine  moby  Shutdown       Failed 2 minutes ago       "task: non-zero exit (1)"
    ```

4.  Get the ID of the `redis` service task container using `docker ps` , so that
    you can use `docker container exec` to connect to the container and read the contents
    of the secret data file, which defaults to being readable by all and has the
    same name as the name of the secret. The first command below illustrates
    how to find the container ID, and the second and third commands use shell
    completion to do this automatically.

    ```console
    $ docker ps --filter name=redis -q

    5cb1c2348a59

    $ docker container exec $(docker ps --filter name=redis -q) ls -l /run/secrets

    total 4
    -r--r--r--    1 root     root            17 Dec 13 22:48 my_secret_data

    $ docker container exec $(docker ps --filter name=redis -q) cat /run/secrets/my_secret_data

    This is a secret
    ```

5.  Verify that the secret is not available if you commit the container.

    ```console
    $ docker commit $(docker ps --filter name=redis -q) committed_redis

    $ docker run --rm -it committed_redis cat /run/secrets/my_secret_data

    cat: can't open '/run/secrets/my_secret_data': No such file or directory
    ```

6.  Try removing the secret. The removal fails because the `redis` service is
    running and has access to the secret.

    ```console
    $ docker secret ls

    ID                          NAME                CREATED             UPDATED
    wwwrxza8sxy025bas86593fqs   my_secret_data      4 hours ago         4 hours ago


    $ docker secret rm my_secret_data

    Error response from daemon: rpc error: code = 3 desc = secret
    'my_secret_data' is in use by the following service: redis
    ```

7.  Remove access to the secret from the running `redis` service by updating the
    service.

    ```console
    $ docker service update --secret-rm my_secret_data redis
    ```

8.  Repeat steps 3 and 4 again, verifying that the service no longer has access
    to the secret. The container ID is different, because the
    `service update` command redeploys the service.

    ```console
    $ docker container exec -it $(docker ps --filter name=redis -q) cat /run/secrets/my_secret_data

    cat: can't open '/run/secrets/my_secret_data': No such file or directory
    ```

9.  Stop and remove the service, and remove the secret from Docker.

    ```console
    $ docker service rm redis

    $ docker secret rm my_secret_data
    ```

### Simple example: Use secrets in a Windows service

This is a very simple example which shows how to use secrets with a Microsoft
IIS service running on Docker for Windows running Windows containers on
Microsoft Windows 10. It is a naive example that stores the webpage in a secret.

This example assumes that you have PowerShell installed.

1.  Save the following into a new file `index.html`.

    ```html
    <html lang="en">
      <head><title>Hello Docker</title></head>
      <body>
        <p>Hello Docker! You have deployed a HTML page.</p>
      </body>
    </html>
    ```

2.  If you have not already done so, initialize or join the swarm.

    ```console
    > docker swarm init
    ```

3.  Save the `index.html` file as a swarm secret named `homepage`.

    ```console
    > docker secret create homepage index.html
    ```

4.  Create an IIS service and grant it access to the `homepage` secret.

    ```console
    > docker service create `
        --name my-iis `
        --publish published=8000,target=8000 `
        --secret src=homepage,target="\inetpub\wwwroot\index.html" `
        microsoft/iis:nanoserver
    ```

    > [!NOTE]
    >
    > There is technically no reason to use secrets for this
    > example; [configs](/engine/swarm/secrets/configs/) are a better fit. This example is
    > for illustration only.

5.  Access the IIS service at `http://localhost:8000/`. It should serve
    the HTML content from the first step.

6.  Remove the service and the secret.

    ```console
    > docker service rm my-iis
    > docker secret rm homepage
    > docker image remove secret-test
    ```

### Intermediate example: Use secrets with a Nginx service

This example is divided into two parts.
[The first part](#generate-the-site-certificate) is all about generating
the site certificate and does not directly involve Docker secrets at all, but
it sets up [the second part](#configure-the-nginx-container), where you store
and use the site certificate and Nginx configuration as secrets.

#### Generate the site certificate

Generate a root CA and TLS certificate and key for your site. For production
sites, you may want to use a service such as `Let’s Encrypt` to generate the
TLS certificate and key, but this example uses command-line tools. This step
is a little complicated, but is only a set-up step so that you have
something to store as a Docker secret. If you want to skip these sub-steps,
you can [use Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/getting-started/) to
generate the site key and certificate, name the files `site.key` and
`site.crt`, and skip to
[Configure the Nginx container](#configure-the-nginx-container).

1.  Generate a root key.

    ```console
    $ openssl genrsa -out "root-ca.key" 4096
    ```

2.  Generate a CSR using the root key.

    ```console
    $ openssl req \
              -new -key "root-ca.key" \
              -out "root-ca.csr" -sha256 \
              -subj '/C=US/ST=CA/L=San Francisco/O=Docker/CN=Swarm Secret Example CA'
    ```

3.  Configure the root CA. Edit a new file called `root-ca.cnf` and paste
    the following contents into it. This constrains the root CA to signing leaf
    certificates and not intermediate CAs.

    ```ini
    [root_ca]
    basicConstraints = critical,CA:TRUE,pathlen:1
    keyUsage = critical, nonRepudiation, cRLSign, keyCertSign
    subjectKeyIdentifier=hash
    ```

4.  Sign the certificate.

    ```console
    $ openssl x509 -req  -days 3650  -in "root-ca.csr" \
                   -signkey "root-ca.key" -sha256 -out "root-ca.crt" \
                   -extfile "root-ca.cnf" -extensions \
                   root_ca
    ```

5.  Generate the site key.

    ```console
    $ openssl genrsa -out "site.key" 4096
    ```

6.  Generate the site certificate and sign it with the site key.

    ```console
    $ openssl req -new -key "site.key" -out "site.csr" -sha256 \
              -subj '/C=US/ST=CA/L=San Francisco/O=Docker/CN=localhost'
    ```

7.  Configure the site certificate. Edit a new file  called `site.cnf` and
    paste the following contents into it. This constrains the site
    certificate so that it can only be used to authenticate a server and
    can't be used to sign certificates.

    ```ini
    [server]
    authorityKeyIdentifier=keyid,issuer
    basicConstraints = critical,CA:FALSE
    extendedKeyUsage=serverAuth
    keyUsage = critical, digitalSignature, keyEncipherment
    subjectAltName = DNS:localhost, IP:127.0.0.1
    subjectKeyIdentifier=hash
    ```

8.  Sign the site certificate.

    ```console
    $ openssl x509 -req -days 750 -in "site.csr" -sha256 \
        -CA "root-ca.crt" -CAkey "root-ca.key"  -CAcreateserial \
        -out "site.crt" -extfile "site.cnf" -extensions server
    ```

9.  The `site.csr` and `site.cnf` files are not needed by the Nginx service, but
    you need them if you want to generate a new site certificate. Protect
    the `root-ca.key` file.

#### Configure the Nginx container

1.  Produce a very basic Nginx configuration that serves static files over HTTPS.
    The TLS certificate and key are stored as Docker secrets so that they
    can be rotated easily.

    In the current directory, create a new file called `site.conf` with the
    following contents:

    ```nginx
    server {
        listen                443 ssl;
        server_name           localhost;
        ssl_certificate       /run/secrets/site.crt;
        ssl_certificate_key   /run/secrets/site.key;

        location / {
            root   /usr/share/nginx/html;
            index  index.html index.htm;
        }
    }
    ```

2.  Create three secrets, representing the key, the certificate, and the
    `site.conf`. You can store any file as a secret as long as it is smaller
    than 500 KB. This allows you to decouple the key, certificate, and
    configuration from the services that use them. In each of these
    commands, the last argument represents the path to the file to read the
    secret from on the host machine's filesystem. In these examples, the secret
    name and the file name are the same.

    ```console
    $ docker secret create site.key site.key

    $ docker secret create site.crt site.crt

    $ docker secret create site.conf site.conf
    ```

    ```console
    $ docker secret ls

    ID                          NAME                  CREATED             UPDATED
    2hvoi9mnnaof7olr3z5g3g7fp   site.key       58 seconds ago      58 seconds ago
    aya1dh363719pkiuoldpter4b   site.crt       24 seconds ago      24 seconds ago
    zoa5df26f7vpcoz42qf2csth8   site.conf      11 seconds ago      11 seconds ago
    ```

3.  Create a service that runs Nginx and has access to the three secrets. The
    last part of the `docker service create` command creates a symbolic link
    from the location of the `site.conf` secret to `/etc/nginx.conf.d/`, where
    Nginx looks for extra configuration files. This step happens before Nginx
    actually starts, so you don't need to rebuild your image if you change the
    Nginx configuration.

    > [!NOTE]
    >
    > Normally you would create a Dockerfile which copies the `site.conf`
    > into place, build the image, and run a container using your custom image.
    > This example does not require a custom image. It puts the `site.conf`
    > into place and runs the container all in one step.

    Secrets are located within the `/run/secrets/` directory in the container
    by default, which may require extra steps in the container to make the
    secret available in a different path. The example below creates a symbolic
    link to the true location of the `site.conf` file so that Nginx can read it:

    ```console
    $ docker service create \
         --name nginx \
         --secret site.key \
         --secret site.crt \
         --secret site.conf \
         --publish published=3000,target=443 \
         nginx:latest \
         sh -c "ln -s /run/secrets/site.conf /etc/nginx/conf.d/site.conf && exec nginx -g 'daemon off;'"
    ```

    Instead of creating symlinks, secrets allow you to specify a custom location
    using the `target` option. The example below illustrates how the `site.conf`
    secret is made available at `/etc/nginx/conf.d/site.conf` inside the container
    without the use of symbolic links:

    ```console
    $ docker service create \
         --name nginx \
         --secret site.key \
         --secret site.crt \
         --secret source=site.conf,target=/etc/nginx/conf.d/site.conf \
         --publish published=3000,target=443 \
         nginx:latest \
         sh -c "exec nginx -g 'daemon off;'"
    ```

    The `site.key` and `site.crt` secrets use the short-hand syntax, without a
    custom `target` location set. The short syntax mounts the secrets in `/run/secrets/
    with the same name as the secret. Within the running containers, the following
    three files now exist:

    - `/run/secrets/site.key`
    - `/run/secrets/site.crt`
    - `/etc/nginx/conf.d/site.conf`

4.  Verify that the Nginx service is running.

    ```console
    $ docker service ls

    ID            NAME   MODE        REPLICAS  IMAGE
    zeskcec62q24  nginx  replicated  1/1       nginx:latest

    $ docker service ps nginx

    NAME                  IMAGE         NODE  DESIRED STATE  CURRENT STATE          ERROR  PORTS
    nginx.1.9ls3yo9ugcls  nginx:latest  moby  Running        Running 3 minutes ago
    ```

5.  Verify that the service is operational: you can reach the Nginx
    server, and that the correct TLS certificate is being used.

    ```console
    $ curl --cacert root-ca.crt https://localhost:3000

    <!DOCTYPE html>
    <html>
    <head>
    <title>Welcome to nginx!</title>
    <style>
        body {
            width: 35em;
            margin: 0 auto;
            font-family: Tahoma, Verdana, Arial, sans-serif;
        }
    </style>
    </head>
    <body>
    <h1>Welcome to nginx!</h1>
    <p>If you see this page, the nginx web server is successfully installed and
    working. Further configuration is required.</p>

    <p>For online documentation and support. refer to
    <a href="https://nginx.org">nginx.org</a>.<br/>
    Commercial support is available at
    <a href="https://www.nginx.com">nginx.com</a>.</p>

    <p><em>Thank you for using nginx.</em></p>
    </body>
    </html>
    ```

    ```console
    $ openssl s_client -connect localhost:3000 -CAfile root-ca.crt

    CONNECTED(00000003)
    depth=1 /C=US/ST=CA/L=San Francisco/O=Docker/CN=Swarm Secret Example CA
    verify return:1
    depth=0 /C=US/ST=CA/L=San Francisco/O=Docker/CN=localhost
    verify return:1
    ---
    Certificate chain
     0 s:/C=US/ST=CA/L=San Francisco/O=Docker/CN=localhost
       i:/C=US/ST=CA/L=San Francisco/O=Docker/CN=Swarm Secret Example CA
    ---
    Server certificate
    -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
    …
    -----END CERTIFICATE-----
    subject=/C=US/ST=CA/L=San Francisco/O=Docker/CN=localhost
    issuer=/C=US/ST=CA/L=San Francisco/O=Docker/CN=Swarm Secret Example CA
    ---
    No client certificate CA names sent
    ---
    SSL handshake has read 1663 bytes and written 712 bytes
    ---
    New, TLSv1/SSLv3, Cipher is AES256-SHA
    Server public key is 4096 bit
    Secure Renegotiation IS supported
    Compression: NONE
    Expansion: NONE
    SSL-Session:
        Protocol  : TLSv1
        Cipher    : AES256-SHA
        Session-ID: A1A8BF35549C5715648A12FD7B7E3D861539316B03440187D9DA6C2E48822853
        Session-ID-ctx:
        Master-Key: F39D1B12274BA16D3A906F390A61438221E381952E9E1E05D3DD784F0135FB81353DA38C6D5C021CB926E844DFC49FC4
        Key-Arg   : None
        Start Time: 1481685096
        Timeout   : 300 (sec)
        Verify return code: 0 (ok)
    ```

6.  To clean up after running this example, remove the `nginx` service and the
    stored secrets.

    ```console
    $ docker service rm nginx

    $ docker secret rm site.crt site.key site.conf
    ```

### Advanced example: Use secrets with a WordPress service

In this example, you create a single-node MySQL service with a custom root
password, add the credentials as secrets, and create a single-node WordPress
service which uses these credentials to connect to MySQL. The
[next example](#example-rotate-a-secret) builds on this one and shows you how to
rotate the MySQL password and update the services so that the WordPress service
can still connect to MySQL.

This example illustrates some techniques to use Docker secrets to avoid saving
sensitive credentials within your image or passing them directly on the command
line.

> [!NOTE]
>
> This example uses a single-Engine swarm for simplicity, and uses a
> single-node MySQL service because a single MySQL server instance cannot be
> scaled by simply using a replicated service, and setting up a MySQL cluster is
> beyond the scope of this example.
>
> Also, changing a MySQL root passphrase isn’t as simple as changing
> a file on disk. You must use a query or a `mysqladmin` command to change the
> password in MySQL.

1.  Generate a random alphanumeric password for MySQL and store it as a Docker
    secret with the name `mysql_password` using the `docker secret create`
    command. To make the password shorter or longer, adjust the last argument of
    the `openssl` command. This is just one way to create a relatively random
    password. You can use another command to generate the password if you
    choose.

    > [!NOTE]
    >
    > After you create a secret, you cannot update it. You can only
    > remove and re-create it, and you cannot remove a secret that a service is
    > using. However, you can grant or revoke a running service's access to
    > secrets using `docker service update`. If you need the ability to update a
    > secret, consider adding a version component to the secret name, so that you
    > can later add a new version, update the service to use it, then remove the
    > old version.

    The last argument is set to `-`, which indicates that the input is read from
    standard input.

    ```console
    $ openssl rand -base64 20 | docker secret create mysql_password -

    l1vinzevzhj4goakjap5ya409
    ```

    The value returned is not the password, but the ID of the secret. In the
    remainder of this tutorial, the ID output is omitted.

    Generate a second secret for the MySQL `root` user. This secret isn't
    shared with the WordPress service created later. It's only needed to
    bootstrap the `mysql` service.

    ```console
    $ openssl rand -base64 20 | docker secret create mysql_root_password -
    ```

    List the secrets managed by Docker using `docker secret ls`:

    ```console
    $ docker secret ls

    ID                          NAME                  CREATED             UPDATED
    l1vinzevzhj4goakjap5ya409   mysql_password        41 seconds ago      41 seconds ago
    yvsczlx9votfw3l0nz5rlidig   mysql_root_password   12 seconds ago      12 seconds ago
    ```

    The secrets are stored in the encrypted Raft logs for the swarm.

2.  Create a user-defined overlay network which is used for communication
    between the MySQL and WordPress services. There is no need to expose the
    MySQL service to any external host or container.

    ```console
    $ docker network create -d overlay mysql_private
    ```

3.  Create the MySQL service. The MySQL service has the following
    characteristics:

    - Because the scale is set to `1`, only a single MySQL task runs.
      Load-balancing MySQL is left as an exercise to the reader and involves
      more than just scaling the service.
    - Only reachable by other containers on the `mysql_private` network.
    - Uses the volume `mydata` to store the MySQL data, so that it persists
      across restarts to the `mysql` service.
    - The secrets are each mounted in a `tmpfs` filesystem at
      `/run/secrets/mysql_password` and `/run/secrets/mysql_root_password`.
      They are never exposed as environment variables, nor can they be committed
      to an image if the `docker commit` command is run. The `mysql_password`
      secret is the one used by the non-privileged WordPress container to
      connect to MySQL.
    - Sets the environment variables `MYSQL_PASSWORD_FILE` and
      `MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD_FILE` to point to the
      files `/run/secrets/mysql_password` and `/run/secrets/mysql_root_password`.
      The `mysql` image reads the password strings from those files when
      initializing the system database for the first time. Afterward, the
      passwords are stored in the MySQL system database itself.
    - Sets environment variables `MYSQL_USER` and `MYSQL_DATABASE`. A new
      database called `wordpress` is created when the container starts, and the
      `wordpress` user has full permissions for this database only. This
      user cannot create or drop databases or change the MySQL
      configuration.

      ```console
      $ docker service create \
           --name mysql \
           --replicas 1 \
           --network mysql_private \
           --mount type=volume,source=mydata,destination=/var/lib/mysql \
           --secret source=mysql_root_password,target=mysql_root_password \
           --secret source=mysql_password,target=mysql_password \
           -e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD_FILE="/run/secrets/mysql_root_password" \
           -e MYSQL_PASSWORD_FILE="/run/secrets/mysql_password" \
           -e MYSQL_USER="wordpress" \
           -e MYSQL_DATABASE="wordpress" \
           mysql:latest
      ```

4.  Verify that the `mysql` container is running using the `docker service ls` command.

    ```console
    $ docker service ls

    ID            NAME   MODE        REPLICAS  IMAGE
    wvnh0siktqr3  mysql  replicated  1/1       mysql:latest
    ```

5.  Now that MySQL is set up, create a WordPress service that connects to the
    MySQL service. The WordPress service has the following characteristics:

    - Because the scale is set to `1`, only a single WordPress task runs.
      Load-balancing WordPress is left as an exercise to the reader, because of
      limitations with storing WordPress session data on the container
      filesystem.
    - Exposes WordPress on port 30000 of the host machine, so that you can access
      it from external hosts. You can expose port 80 instead if you do not have
      a web server running on port 80 of the host machine.
    - Connects to the `mysql_private` network so it can communicate with the
      `mysql` container, and also publishes port 80 to port 30000 on all swarm
      nodes.
    - Has access to the `mysql_password` secret, but specifies a different
      target file name within the container. The WordPress container uses
      the mount point `/run/secrets/wp_db_password`.
    - Sets the environment variable `WORDPRESS_DB_PASSWORD_FILE` to the file
      path where the secret is mounted. The WordPress service reads the
      MySQL password string from that file and add it to the `wp-config.php`
      configuration file.
    - Connects to the MySQL container using the username `wordpress` and the
      password in `/run/secrets/wp_db_password` and creates the `wordpress`
      database if it does not yet exist.
    - Stores its data, such as themes and plugins, in a volume called `wpdata`
      so these files  persist when the service restarts.

    ```console
    $ docker service create \
         --name wordpress \
         --replicas 1 \
         --network mysql_private \
         --publish published=30000,target=80 \
         --mount type=volume,source=wpdata,destination=/var/www/html \
         --secret source=mysql_password,target=wp_db_password \
         -e WORDPRESS_DB_USER="wordpress" \
         -e WORDPRESS_DB_PASSWORD_FILE="/run/secrets/wp_db_password" \
         -e WORDPRESS_DB_HOST="mysql:3306" \
         -e WORDPRESS_DB_NAME="wordpress" \
         wordpress:latest
    ```

6.  Verify the service is running using `docker service ls` and
    `docker service ps` commands.

    ```console
    $ docker service ls

    ID            NAME       MODE        REPLICAS  IMAGE
    wvnh0siktqr3  mysql      replicated  1/1       mysql:latest
    nzt5xzae4n62  wordpress  replicated  1/1       wordpress:latest
    ```

    ```console
    $ docker service ps wordpress

    ID            NAME         IMAGE             NODE  DESIRED STATE  CURRENT STATE           ERROR  PORTS
    aukx6hgs9gwc  wordpress.1  wordpress:latest  moby  Running        Running 52 seconds ago
    ```

    At this point, you could actually revoke the WordPress service's access to
    the `mysql_password` secret, because WordPress has copied the secret to its
    configuration file `wp-config.php`. Don't do that for now, because we
    use it later to facilitate rotating the MySQL password.

7.  Access `http://localhost:30000/` from any swarm node and set up WordPress
    using the web-based wizard. All of these settings are stored in the MySQL
    `wordpress` database. WordPress automatically generates a password for your
    WordPress user, which is completely different from the password WordPress
    uses to access MySQL. Store this password securely, such as in a password
    manager. You need it to log into WordPress after
    [rotating the secret](#example-rotate-a-secret).

    Go ahead and write a blog post or two and install a WordPress plugin or
    theme to verify that WordPress is fully operational and its state is saved
    across service restarts.

8.  Do not clean up any services or secrets if you intend to proceed to the next
    example, which demonstrates how to rotate the MySQL root password.

### Example: Rotate a secret

This example builds upon the previous one. In this scenario, you create a new
secret with a new MySQL password, update the `mysql` and `wordpress` services to
use it, then remove the old secret.

> [!NOTE]
>
> Changing the password on a MySQL database involves running extra
> queries or commands, as opposed to just changing a single environment variable
> or a file, since the image only sets the MySQL password if the database doesn’t
> already exist, and MySQL stores the password within a MySQL database by default.
> Rotating passwords or other secrets may involve additional steps outside of
> Docker.

1.  Create the new password and store it as a secret named `mysql_password_v2`.

    ```console
    $ openssl rand -base64 20 | docker secret create mysql_password_v2 -
    ```

2.  Update the MySQL service to give it access to both the old and new secrets.
    Remember that you cannot update or rename a secret, but you can revoke a
    secret and grant access to it using a new target filename.

    ```console
    $ docker service update \
         --secret-rm mysql_password mysql

    $ docker service update \
         --secret-add source=mysql_password,target=old_mysql_password \
         --secret-add source=mysql_password_v2,target=mysql_password \
         mysql
    ```

    Updating a service causes it to restart, and when the MySQL service restarts
    the second time, it has access to the old secret under
    `/run/secrets/old_mysql_password` and the new secret under
    `/run/secrets/mysql_password`.

    Even though the MySQL service has access to both the old and new secrets
    now, the MySQL password for the WordPress user has not yet been changed.

    > [!NOTE]
    >
    > This example does not rotate the MySQL `root` password.

3.  Now, change the MySQL password for the `wordpress` user using the
    `mysqladmin` CLI. This command reads the old and new password from the files
    in `/run/secrets` but does not expose them on the command line or save them
    in the shell history.

    Do this quickly and move on to the next step, because WordPress loses
    the ability to connect to MySQL.

    First, find the ID of the `mysql` container task.

    ```console
    $ docker ps --filter name=mysql -q

    c7705cf6176f
    ```

    Substitute the ID in the command below, or use the second variant which
    uses shell expansion to do it all in a single step.

    ```console
    $ docker container exec <CONTAINER_ID> \
        bash -c 'mysqladmin --user=wordpress --password="$(< /run/secrets/old_mysql_password)" password "$(< /run/secrets/mysql_password)"'
    ```

    Or:

    ```console
    $ docker container exec $(docker ps --filter name=mysql -q) \
        bash -c 'mysqladmin --user=wordpress --password="$(< /run/secrets/old_mysql_password)" password "$(< /run/secrets/mysql_password)"'
    ```

4.  Update the `wordpress` service to use the new password, keeping the target
    path at `/run/secrets/wp_db_password`. This triggers a rolling restart of
    the WordPress service and the new secret is used.

    ```console
    $ docker service update \
         --secret-rm mysql_password \
         --secret-add source=mysql_password_v2,target=wp_db_password \
         wordpress
    ```

5.  Verify that WordPress works by browsing to http://localhost:30000/ on any
    swarm node again. Use the WordPress username and password
    from when you ran through the WordPress wizard in the previous task.

    Verify that the blog post you wrote still exists, and if you changed any
    configuration values, verify that they are still changed.

6.  Revoke access to the old secret from the MySQL service and
    remove the old secret from Docker.

    ```console
    $ docker service update \
         --secret-rm mysql_password \
         mysql

    $ docker secret rm mysql_password
    ```


7.  Run the following commands to remove the WordPress service, the MySQL container,
    the `mydata` and `wpdata` volumes, and the Docker secrets:

    ```console
    $ docker service rm wordpress mysql

    $ docker volume rm mydata wpdata

    $ docker secret rm mysql_password_v2 mysql_root_password
    ```

## Build support for Docker Secrets into your images

If you develop a container that can be deployed as a service and requires
sensitive data, such as a credential, as an environment variable, consider
adapting your image to take advantage of Docker secrets. One way to do this is
to ensure that each parameter you pass to the image when creating the container
can also be read from a file.

Many of the Docker Official Images in the
[Docker library](https://github.com/docker-library/), such as the
[wordpress](https://github.com/docker-library/wordpress/)
image used in the above examples, have been updated in this way.

When you start a WordPress container, you provide it with the parameters it
needs by setting them as environment variables. The WordPress image has been
updated so that the environment variables which contain important data for
WordPress, such as `WORDPRESS_DB_PASSWORD`, also have variants which can read
their values from a file (`WORDPRESS_DB_PASSWORD_FILE`). This strategy ensures
that backward compatibility is preserved, while allowing your container to read
the information from a Docker-managed secret instead of being passed directly.

> [!NOTE]
>
> Docker secrets do not set environment variables directly. This was a
> conscious decision, because environment variables can unintentionally be leaked
> between containers (for instance, if you use `--link`).

## Use Secrets in Compose

```yaml

services:
   db:
     image: mysql:latest
     volumes:
       - db_data:/var/lib/mysql
     environment:
       MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD_FILE: /run/secrets/db_root_password
       MYSQL_DATABASE: wordpress
       MYSQL_USER: wordpress
       MYSQL_PASSWORD_FILE: /run/secrets/db_password
     secrets:
       - db_root_password
       - db_password

   wordpress:
     depends_on:
       - db
     image: wordpress:latest
     ports:
       - "8000:80"
     environment:
       WORDPRESS_DB_HOST: db:3306
       WORDPRESS_DB_USER: wordpress
       WORDPRESS_DB_PASSWORD_FILE: /run/secrets/db_password
     secrets:
       - db_password


secrets:
   db_password:
     file: db_password.txt
   db_root_password:
     file: db_root_password.txt

volumes:
    db_data:
```

This example creates a simple WordPress site using two secrets in
a Compose file.

The top-level element `secrets` defines two secrets `db_password` and
`db_root_password`.

When deploying, Docker creates these two secrets and populates them with the
content from the file specified in the Compose file.

The `db` service uses both secrets, and `wordpress` is using one.

When you deploy, Docker mounts a file under `/run/secrets/<secret_name>` in the
services. These files are never persisted on disk, but are managed in memory.

Each service uses environment variables to specify where the service should look
for that secret data.

# Secrets


Secrets are a flavor of [Configs](/reference/compose-file/secrets/configs/) focusing on sensitive data, with specific constraint for this usage.

Services can only access secrets when explicitly granted by a [`secrets` attribute](/reference/compose-file/secrets/services/#secrets) within the `services` top-level element.

The top-level `secrets` declaration defines or references sensitive data that is granted to the services in your Compose
application. The source of the secret is either `file` or `environment`.

- `file`: The secret is created with the contents of the file at the specified path.
- `environment`: The secret is created with the value of an environment variable on the host.

## Example 1

`server-certificate` secret is created as `<project_name>_server-certificate` when the application is deployed,
by registering content of the `server.cert` as a platform secret.

```yml
secrets:
  server-certificate:
    file: ./server.cert
```

## Example 2

`token` secret is created as `<project_name>_token` when the application is deployed,
by registering the content of the `OAUTH_TOKEN` environment variable as a platform secret.

```yml
secrets:
  token:
    environment: "OAUTH_TOKEN"
```

Course transcription

All right,  So a new feature in 1.13.1 was full support for secrets.  If I had to create a tag line of what this is, it's basically the 'easiest secure solution for storing  secrets in Swarm.'  I say it's the easiest because it's built into Swarm,  it comes out-of-the-box, and there's nothing you need to do to use it. As long as you've initialized your swarm  and your on version 1.13 or newer,  you've got secrets. I say it's secure because it was designed from the ground up to be encrypted on  disk to be encrypted in transit and to only be available to the places it needs to be.  And that's really what we need.  So what is a secret? A secret, in this case, is classifying anything that you don't want on the front page  of a newspaper. If it got on the front page and you had to go change it,  that's a secret.  It's a user name or password,  it's a TLS certificate or the keys to that,  it's an SSH key,  it's a Twitter API key, it's an Amazon key, it's anything that you need to allow connectivity between  stuff is probably a secret and you should be protecting it.  Until now we haven't had a lot of great options for Swarm.  There's definitely lots of options out there like Vault and other great tools for storing secrets, but  they weren't built in and they required a separate infrastructure set-up just so that you could even  start using them.  So, we can store in here anything that's a string or a binary up to .5MB in size.  And the coolest part about this is it doesn't actually require your app to be rewritten in order to  use it.  You don't have to have your app talk to a web service somewhere else in order to get these.  So let's see how it works.  As of 1.13.0 the Swarm Raft database is encrypted on disk by default. If you install Docker  and do a swarm init like we've done before,  that's an encrypted database.  And when it shuts down the service, it's encrypted with the keys stored securely.  It's only stored on the disk of the manager nodes and they're the only ones that have the keys to unlock  it or decrypt it.  This is already existing in Swarm, but basically the way that the keys get down to the containers is  through the control plane or the encrypted TLS network communications between the Managers and  the Workers. And, that connection was already secure, it already used TLS and mutual PKI authentication,  so it was a great way to use that existing channel for bringing these secrets down to our containers.  The way we get them around is we actually first put them into the Swarm database using Docker secrets  commands.  Then we assign them to the services whether we use the service commands themselves or a stack file  to tell Swarm who's allowed to use this secret. The key here is that just because there's a container  on a host or on a node and you've assigned the key to that service, doesn't mean other containers can  get access to it.  Since this is built in to the Docker Engine, the Docker Worker keeps that key secure in memory only and  only gets down to the containers on that node that needs them.  Now, how they're presented in the file system to the container, is it looks like a file on the hard drive  to your apps inside the container.  But it's not actually that. They're not actually running on disk. They're in memory only using a ramfs  file system and you'll get to them underneath the /run/secrets directory where it'll, by default,  be the name you gave the secret as a file.  Then when you just access that file you'll see the one secret that's in it.  If you think of this as like a key value store,  the key is the name of the file and the value is what's in it.  We can also set up aliases so we can have multiple names for the same key and we'll see how that comes  into play later.  For local development, if you're using a stack file that has secret assignments in it, it will actually  work in Docker Compose on your local machine.  Now again docker-compose, the command line, should never be used in production on a production server.  In this case in particular, it's actually faking security.  So what's happening is we really want the Docker developer or the Docker user on their machine to be  able to use the stack files as much as possible.  So the containers that you run on your local machine, will actually see the secrets just like they would  in Swarm.  But we don't have Swarm on our local machine unless we initialize it there,  which most people aren't going to do.  And the way we store the secrets is in the Swarm database.  So this may be kind of obvious to you but secrets depends on Swarm. It's a Swarm-only thing. If you  don't have Swarm you can't use secrets.  However, docker-compose command has a workaround where it actually mounts the secrets in a clear text file  into the local container.  Now that's not secure, but it does allow us to use secrets locally on our machine.  It's just not something that you would want to use in production, which is why we have the secure store  for Swarm.

Now that we've seen secrets with services, let's look at secrets with stacks. In this directory, I'm in  secrets sample two, and  in this directory, I have a Compose file and then two secrets stored in text files.  So it's the similar password and user names that we had in the previous lecture, but now we've defined  all this in a Compose file. We have several things different here.  The first thing is the version of your Compose file now has to be 3.1. In order to have secrets,  we have to be at the .1 release of 3.  So we needed to have 3 in order to use stacks, but to use stacks with secrets we need it to be 3.1 or  newer.  The second thing we'll notice is that down here at the bottom we have this root secrets key now and  it's where we define our secrets.  The two ways you can do secrets in a Compose file are either using a file for each secret, or have  the secrets pre-created.  Here we actually are just using files,  but what we could do is create those secrets on our own in some other method either through the CLI,  like you've seen, or maybe through the API directly. Then we would just instead of the file:  underneath it, it would just say external: and it would be the name of the secret inside the secrets  list.  We need to tell the Compose file about our secrets and where they are, and then we actually assign them  to the services that need them.  That's key because what we're really saying here is that only the container that wants our secret  gets our secret. If this was a complicated Compose file where we had multiple services, we may have different  secrets for different services.  We would first define all of them down the bottom and then we would assign them specifically at each  service.  I will say that this is actually considered the short form or the easy way to do the secrets under  a service.  There's actually a long form that allows you to define things like the permissions and the users that  are allowed to access that using standard Linux mode and user ID syntaxes.  So if you were running applications as a non-root user, you'd want to target these secrets to only that  user being able to access them.  But for simplicity's sake in this first example, we're just using the short form.  All I need to do is use that file in a standard stack deploy command. So, deploy docker-compose, and  we'll call this mydb. You'll see, just like before, it actually created the network first.  In this case, it actually created the secrets first and then created the service.  If I went and did a Docker secret look-up, then you'll see that the two are in there and it follows the  same naming convention as all other stack components, where it's always the stack name and then the name  of the object.  Just like in the previous lecture, if I jumped on the SQL server and actually looked for those files,  they would be there just like they were before; only now, they're managed inside our stack file.  The nice thing here is if I removed my stack, it also cleans up the secrets and gets rid of them. In the  previous example,  if we wanted to remove our secrets, we would have had to do a docker secret rm to actually remove each  one. Just as a last reminder,  in these examples we've been using text files on this server, and that we're talking about 3-node  swarm here.  But if you're in a production environment or really anything that's not on your local machine, you should  not be keeping the secrets in files or in the bash history file or any place that could possibly be  on that host.  That's kind of defeating the purpose of having the secrets in the first place. Whatever your process  is for getting secrets into the Swarm,  just know that you may need cleanup once you're done there so that you don't leave residual secrets  around that are easy for people to get.