Container Registries

- An image registry needs to be part of your container plan
- More Docker Hub details including auto-build
- How Docker Store (store.docker.com) is different then Hub
- How Docker Cloud (cloud.docker.com) is different then Hub
- Use new Swarms feature in Cloud to connect Mac/Win toSwarm
- Install and use Docker Registry as private image store
- 3rd Party registry options

Docker Hub: Digging Deeper
- The most popular public image registry
- It's really Docker Registry plus lightweight image building
- Let's explore more of the features of Docker Hub
- Link GitHub/BitBucket to Hub and auto-build images on commit
- Chain image building together

Running Docker Registry
- A private image registry for your network
- Part of the Docker/distribution github repository
- The de facto in private container registries
- Not as full featured as Hub or others, no Web UI, basic auth only
- Storage supports local S3/Alibaba/Azure/Google Cloud and OpenStack Swift

Running Docker Registry Cont.
- Look in section resources for links to:
- Secure your Registry with TLS
- Storage cleanup via Garbage Collection
- Enable Hub caching via "--registry-mirror" (proxy mode)

Run a Private Docker Registry
- Run the registry image on default port 5000
- Re-tag an existing image and push it to your new registry
- Remove that image from local cache and pull it from new registry
- Re-create registry using a bind mount and see how it stores data

Registry and Proper TLS
- "Secure by Default": Docker won't talk to registry without HTTPS
- Except, localhost (127.0.0.0/8)
- For remote self-signed TLS, enable "insecure-registry" in engine

Run a Private Docker Registry Recap
- Run the registry image
- docker container run -d -p 5000:5000 --name registry registry
- Re-tag an existing image and push it to your new registry
- docker tag hello-world 127.0.0.1:5000/hello-world
- docker push 127.0.0.1:5000/hello-world
- Remove that image from local cache and pull it from new registry
- docker image remove hello-world
- docker image remove 127.0.0.1:5000/hello-world
- docker pull 127.0.0.1:5000/hello-world
- Re-create registry using a bind mount and see how it stores data
- docker container run -d -p 5000:5000 --name registry -v $(pwd)/registry-data:/var/lib/registry registry

Private Docker Registry with Swarm
- Works the same way as localhost
- Because of Routing Mesh, all nodes can see 127.0.0.1:5000
- Remember to decide how to store images (volume driver)
- NOTE: All nodes must be able to access images
- ProTip: Use a hosted SaaS registry if possible

# Mirror the Docker Hub library

## Use-case

If you have multiple instances of Docker running in your environment, such as
multiple physical or virtual machines all running Docker, each daemon goes out
to the internet and fetches an image it doesn't have locally, from the Docker
repository. You can run a local registry mirror and point all your daemons
there, to avoid this extra internet traffic.

> [!NOTE]
>
> Docker Official Images are an intellectual property of Docker.

### Alternatives

Alternatively, if the set of images you are using is well delimited, you can
simply pull them manually and push them to a simple, local, private registry.

Furthermore, if your images are all built in-house, not using the Hub at all and
relying entirely on your local registry is the simplest scenario.

### Gotcha

It's currently not possible to mirror another private registry. Only the central
Hub can be mirrored.

> [!NOTE]
>
> Mirrors of Docker Hub are still subject to Docker's [fair use policy](/docker-hub/usage/#fair-use).

### Solution

The Registry can be configured as a pull through cache. In this mode a Registry
responds to all normal docker pull requests but stores all content locally.

### Using Registry Access Management (RAM) with a registry mirror

If Docker Hub access is restricted via your Registry Access Management (RAM) configuration, you will not be able to pull images originating from Docker Hub even if the images are available in your registry mirror.

You will encounter the following error:
```console
Error response from daemon: Access to docker.io has been restricted by your administrators.
```

If you are unable to allow access to Docker Hub, you can manually pull from your registry mirror and optionally, retag the image. For example:
```console
docker pull <your-registry-mirror>[:<port>]/library/busybox
docker tag <your-registry-mirror>[:<port>]/library/busybox:latest busybox:latest
```

## How does it work?

The first time you request an image from your local registry mirror, it pulls
the image from the public Docker registry and stores it locally before handing
it back to you. On subsequent requests, the local registry mirror is able to
serve the image from its own storage.

### What if the content changes on the Hub?

When a pull is attempted with a tag, the Registry checks the remote to
ensure if it has the latest version of the requested content. Otherwise, it
fetches and caches the latest content.

### What about my disk?

In environments with high churn rates, stale data can build up in the cache.
When running as a pull through cache the Registry periodically removes old
content to save disk space. Subsequent requests for removed content causes a
remote fetch and local re-caching.

To ensure best performance and guarantee correctness the Registry cache should
be configured to use the `filesystem` driver for storage.

## Run a Registry as a pull-through cache

The easiest way to run a registry as a pull through cache is to run the official
[Registry](https://hub.docker.com/_/registry) image.
At least, you need to specify `proxy.remoteurl` within `/etc/docker/registry/config.yml`
as described in the following subsection.

Multiple registry caches can be deployed over the same back-end. A single
registry cache ensures that concurrent requests do not pull duplicate data,
but this property does not hold true for a registry cache cluster.

### Configure the cache

To configure a Registry to run as a pull through cache, the addition of a
`proxy` section is required to the config file.

To access private images on the Docker Hub, a username and password can
be supplied.

```yaml
proxy:
  remoteurl: https://registry-1.docker.io
  username: [username]
  password: [password]
```

> [!WARNING]
>
> If you specify a username and password, it's very important to understand that
> private resources that this user has access to Docker Hub is made available on
> your mirror. You must secure your mirror by implementing authentication if
> you expect these resources to stay private!

> [!WARNING]
>
> For the scheduler to clean up old entries, `delete` must be enabled in the
> registry configuration.

### Configure the Docker daemon

Either pass the `--registry-mirror` option when starting `dockerd` manually,
or edit [`/etc/docker/daemon.json`](/reference/cli/dockerd/#daemon-configuration-file)
and add the `registry-mirrors` key and value, to make the change persistent.

```json
{
  "registry-mirrors": ["https://<my-docker-mirror-host>"]
}
```

Save the file and reload Docker for the change to take effect.

> [!NOTE]
>
> Some log messages that appear to be errors are actually informational
> messages.
>
> Check the `level` field to determine whether the message is warning you about
> an error or is giving you information. For example, this log message is
> informational:
>
> ```text
> time="2017-06-02T15:47:37Z" level=info msg="error statting local store, serving from upstream: unknown blob" go.version=go1.7.4
> ```
>
> It's telling you that the file doesn't exist yet in the local cache and is
> being pulled from upstream.


 Distribution Registry
 Edit page
Distribution Registry
What it is
The Registry is a stateless, highly scalable server side application that stores and lets you distribute container images and other content. The Registry is open-source, under the permissive Apache license.

Why use it
You should use the Registry if you want to:

tightly control where your images are being stored
fully own your images distribution pipeline
integrate image storage and distribution tightly into your in-house development workflow
Alternatives
Users looking for a zero maintenance, ready-to-go solution are encouraged to use one of the existing registry services. Many of these provide support and security scanning, and are free for public repositories. For example:

Docker Hub
Quay.io
GitHub Packages
Cloud infrastructure providers such as AWS, Azure, Google Cloud and IBM Cloud also have container registry services available at a cost.

Compatibility
The distribution registry implements the OCI Distribution Spec version 1.0.1.

Basic commands
Start your registry

docker run -d -p 5000:5000 --name registry registry:3
Pull (or build) some image from the hub

docker pull ubuntu
Tag the image so that it points to your registry

docker image tag ubuntu localhost:5000/myfirstimage
Push it

docker push localhost:5000/myfirstimage
Pull it back

docker pull localhost:5000/myfirstimage
Now stop your registry and remove all data

docker container stop registry && docker container rm -v registry


 Distribution Registry / About Registry / Garbage collection
 Edit page
Garbage collection
As of v2.4.0 a garbage collector command is included within the registry binary. This document describes what this command does and how and why it should be used.

About garbage collection
In the context of the registry, garbage collection is the process of removing blobs from the filesystem when they are no longer referenced by a manifest. Blobs can include both layers and manifests.

Registry data can occupy considerable amounts of disk space. In addition, garbage collection can be a security consideration, when it is desirable to ensure that certain layers no longer exist on the filesystem.

Garbage collection in practice
Filesystem layers are stored by their content address in the Registry. This has many advantages, one of which is that data is stored once and referred to by manifests. See here for more details.

Layers are therefore shared amongst manifests; each manifest maintains a reference to the layer. As long as a layer is referenced by one manifest, it cannot be garbage collected.

Manifests and layers can be deleted with the registry API (refer to the API documentation here and here for details). This API removes references to the target and makes them eligible for garbage collection. It also makes them unable to be read via the API.

If a layer is deleted, it is removed from the filesystem when garbage collection is run. If a manifest is deleted the layers to which it refers are removed from the filesystem if no other manifests refers to them.

Example
In this example manifest A references two layers: a and b. Manifest B references layers a and c. In this state, nothing is eligible for garbage collection:

A -----> a <----- B
    \--> b     |
         c <--/
Manifest B is deleted via the API:

A -----> a     B
    \--> b
         c
In this state layer c no longer has a reference and is eligible for garbage collection. Layer a had one reference removed but not garbage collected as it is still referenced by manifest A. The blob representing manifest B is eligible for garbage collection.

After garbage collection has been run, manifest A and its blobs remain.

A -----> a
    \--> b
More details about garbage collection
Garbage collection runs in two phases. First, in the ‘mark’ phase, the process scans all the manifests in the registry. From these manifests, it constructs a set of content address digests. This set is the ‘mark set’ and denotes the set of blobs to not delete. Secondly, in the ‘sweep’ phase, the process scans all the blobs and if a blob’s content address digest is not in the mark set, the process deletes it.

Note: You should ensure that the registry is in read-only mode or not running at all. If you were to upload an image while garbage collection is running, there is the risk that the image’s layers are mistakenly deleted leading to a corrupted image.

This type of garbage collection is known as stop-the-world garbage collection.

Run garbage collection
Garbage collection can be run as follows

bin/registry garbage-collect [--dry-run] [--delete-untagged] [--quiet] /path/to/config.yml

The garbage-collect command accepts a --dry-run parameter, which prints the progress of the mark and sweep phases without removing any data. Running with a log level of info gives a clear indication of items eligible for deletion.

The config.yml file should be in the following format:

version: 0.1
storage:
  filesystem:
    rootdirectory: /registry/data
Sample output from a dry run garbage collection with registry log level set to info

hello-world
hello-world: marking manifest sha256:fea8895f450959fa676bcc1df0611ea93823a735a01205fd8622846041d0c7cf
hello-world: marking blob sha256:03f4658f8b782e12230c1783426bd3bacce651ce582a4ffb6fbbfa2079428ecb
hello-world: marking blob sha256:a3ed95caeb02ffe68cdd9fd84406680ae93d633cb16422d00e8a7c22955b46d4
hello-world: marking configuration sha256:690ed74de00f99a7d00a98a5ad855ac4febd66412be132438f9b8dbd300a937d
ubuntu

4 blobs marked, 5 blobs eligible for deletion
blob eligible for deletion: sha256:28e09fddaacbfc8a13f82871d9d66141a6ed9ca526cb9ed295ef545ab4559b81
blob eligible for deletion: sha256:7e15ce58ccb2181a8fced7709e9893206f0937cc9543bc0c8178ea1cf4d7e7b5
blob eligible for deletion: sha256:87192bdbe00f8f2a62527f36bb4c7c7f4eaf9307e4b87e8334fb6abec1765bcb
blob eligible for deletion: sha256:b549a9959a664038fc35c155a95742cf12297672ca0ae35735ec027d55bf4e97
blob eligible for deletion: sha256:f251d679a7c61455f06d793e43c06786d7766c88b8c24edf242b2c08e3c3f599
The --delete-untagged option can be used to delete manifests that are not currently referenced by a tag.

The --quiet option suppresses any output from being printed.


Course Transcript

This section is going to be all about container image registries.  There's a lot to go through,  so, we're actually going to start with basically saying that you need an image registry in your plan.  It's not really an optional part of the container ecosystem. The way that Docker and other tools are  designed is that they need a place, off your servers and off of your developer workstations, to actually  store your images.  Technically, they can be zip files and you can export and import them but that's really an arduous  situation.  So you really want to plan for a registry, whether it's on the internet or a private one.  We're going to actually go through some things and different lectures here where we talk about the  details of Docker Hub and some of the auto-build options there.  We're going to focus on the Docker Store for a lecture and how that's actually different than Hub.  And then the Docker Cloud option, which is actually also different than Hub, but also an add-on to the  Docker tool set,  and maybe could help you make it easier to deploy servers and your stuff into the cloud.  We also have the new Swarms feature now in Docker Cloud that I’ll have a specific lecture on.  And then, you're going to learn how to build your own registry and deploy it on either your local machine  or on a Docker Swarm to use as a private registry.  It's actually open-source. And then we'll mention some of the third-party registry options in case you  don't want to use Docker Hub or the open-source Docker registry.  In this lecture we're going to cover some of the advanced topics of Docker Hub.  Now, it is the most popular image registry in the world for containers, but it's not the only one.  Let's just see what it does  in addition to what we've already discussed so far. In summary, Hub is a registry, but it also has image building  in it.  That's not normally a part of,  for example, the open-source registry and so it does have a little bit of extra stuff in it that allows  you to build images on the fly.  We're going to jump into some of those features here.  And then, also talk about linking your GitHub and BitBucket accounts to Hub and checking out some of  the auto-build features for building your images based on the commits.  And then, we're going to show some features around chaining image building together, so that you can make  it easier to make sure your images are always up to date.  We've already covered a little bit about Docker Hub  when we first learned about images earlier in this course. But, I wanted to go through some of the other  features that maybe we haven't discussed, and then compare that to the Docker Store, and then talk about  what Docker Cloud might do for us before we actually get into other registry options for ourselves.  Obviously, Docker Hub is a registry.  It's what we've been talking about this whole course.  It's how we pull all of our images, and it is the default registry for Docker. But, it's not the only one  by far.  Let's talk about what it can do besides what we've already done.  We can see that I have repositories here, obviously. You can tell that I actually have at least one private  one here. The private ones,  you get one free, and the rest you have to pay for.  You set up a billing account like normal and you pay for that. When you create repositories, and on  each one of your images, whether they're public or private, you can choose to give permissions to people.  This is what my view would look like for a repository that I own.  This happens to be a public one.  If I went into Settings, you can see that I can switch back and forth between making it private and  public.  I can delete it. I can create webhooks, and the webhooks are really handy for when your images are built  and pushed into Docker Hub.  You can have it send a webhook to some other service, like Jenkins or Codeship, or Travis CI, or something  like that, to have automated builds continue down the lines.  Those webhooks are there to help you automate the process of getting your code all the way from  something like Git or GitHub to Docker and all the way to your servers where you want to run them. The  Collaborators is the permissions area where you can set permissions for other people to do things with  your image.  And then we also have Organizations. So, you have your own permissions for your own repositories and then  you can give others permissions to your repositories. But, if you want to create organizations you can  do that as well.  They're totally free.  For example, underneath this organization, I can see all of their repos. And then, because I have the  permissions for each one, I can actually go in and change all their settings.  You can see that I can control team membership.  I can control billing like you would normally do for private images.  This is very much like GitHub, if you've used GitHub at all, or if you've ever paid for anything on GitHub.  It's very similar where everything that's open-source is free and then anything you want to be private  you have to pay for in-group plans. And the Organizations work the same way as GitHub.  There's not a whole lot else to it.  I just want to show you a few key things that you need to know if you want to start using it.  One is, if you're using a GitHub or BitBucket to store your code, don't click this button to create your  repository.  Also, don't do a Docker push before creating it first, because what you really want to do is go up here  to create and create automated build. The automated build allows Docker Hub to create this CI path  that will automatically build your image based on code commits.  This is like the reverse webhook.  The webhooks we just looked at a while ago are for Docker Hub to notify something else that it's finished  with an image.  But this process allows Docker Hub to be notified when something else happens.  I always set it up for auto-building my own repositories.  In this case, for instance, I just chose a repository I have access to and GitHub.  And then, I give it a short description and it allows me to create a repository.  But, in this case, it knows it's coming from GitHub.  Anytime there's a commit based on certain requirements, or certain branches, it will actually build  my image on the fly.  Then I get a nice little e-mail saying it's successful or not.  That's why you see on a lot of images that they're automated builds.  That's just one indication of quality because it shows that this image is likely always up to date  with wherever the source code is. You'll see here, like the Jekyll server that we used previously  in this course, that I have some of these automated options here that I didn't have in the previous repository  that wasn't set up for automation.  So here I have build details, build settings. You can see that each time it's built it's successful  in the history. And then, in the build settings, I can choose which branches I want to build. Something  I highly recommend is that, down here under repository links,  if you are building images on Docker Hub, and you're using a from statement that you're pulling from  some other image, then you want to set up repository links here, so that any time that software changes  your image gets rebuilt.  And that's a big deal because, over time your, image is going to have dependencies on it, and it's going  to need to update when those get updated themselves,  maybe based on security requirements or new bug fixes. And so, on mine, because it's running Ruby and Jekyll  inside my image, and it's from statement in the Docker file is actually the Jekyll,  I put those here so that any time those images get rebuilt, mine will then get rebuilt.  If you also want to create a build trigger...a build trigger is another inbound way for you to automatically  have an image be built, and maybe you have some other software that's not GitHub that you want to kick  off builds whenever something happens.  So you can create those unique post URLs there.

Docker Registry. We've previously discussed how it can be a registry that you store privately on your  network.  It's actually part of the Docker/distribution GitHub repo.  If you went looking for Registry, just so you know, there's an old version of Registry in GitHub  that is legacy. It'll clearly say that. The current V2 Registry that we're all using was rewritten in  Go and can be found in the Distribution code repository but you probably won't use it from GitHub,  you'll probably use it from Docker Hub. Docker has a pre-built official image for Registry,  so it's as simple as Docker pull registry. I would say that it's pretty much the defacto backend  registry for storing your containers privately.  It is pretty bare bones.  There's no web GUI.  It's definitely not like a Docker Hub or other third party service. Out-of-the-box,  it does support certificates and basic authentication, but they're not enabled by default and the authentication  is actually everything or none.  It's not RBAC or role-based access control.  It's more like an Apache htaccess where, if you have a username and password that you get through, you  have read/write access to everything.  It's probably only useful in small teams without some sort of tool on top of it to make it more enterprise-y  and scalable.  But at its core, it's really just a web API and a storage system to handle all of these large images  we're going to be dealing with.  The nice thing is it actually comes with a lot of built in storage drivers that allow you to put  the backend storage of it on S3 or Azure or Alibaba or Google Cloud. It's even got an OpenStack  Swift driver but we're just going to use the local which is default.  Basically, that just means using the local file system in the image or on your host using volumes.  Real quick, before we get to installing the registry, I wanted to bring your attention to a few of  the resource links in this section that you should check out.  The first one is a basic set up with TLS so that you won't have to enable the insecure registry  option because, obviously, TLS is a good thing.  The second is a reference article from Docker around a garbage collection.  The thing about a registry is when you start using it in the real world, it really starts to take  up a lot of data and, especially if you're pushing images over and over, it can really start to eat up  disk space.  So you need to pay a little bit of attention to your decision around your storage driver and, as  well,  this article on garbage collection which will try to clean up old things and keep your storage in check.  Lastly, a really cool option is the registry mirror.  If you're deploying to production and one of your concerns is that you don't want to depend on the  Hub for a lot of your base images, then what you can do as a feature in Registry is to enable a proxy  mode and then you tell your Docker daemons to use the proxy and what it will do is it will cache any  Hub images inside that registry. Which is pretty great if you're wanting to make sure that you can optimize  your bandwidth in case you've maybe got dozens or hundreds of servers, you definitely don't want to be  downloading the Ubuntu image on every single machine from the Hub.  Right?  So you could have this proxy much more closer to your metal, and then it also would provide some failover  in case the Hub would have issues.  You can still get your copies of the images locally.